￼
￼eoy Lnu
￼
￼
￼Forty Grand Kathryn N. Bush
￼This book is designed to provide accurate and authoritative information in regard to the subject matter covered. It is sold with the understanding that the publisher and author are not engaged in rendering medical or related professional services. Ifmedical advice is required, the services of a competent professional should be sought. While every attempt has been made to provide accurate information, the author and publisher cannot be held responsible for any errors or omissions.

Published by

Kathryn N. Bush Orlando. Florida 32803

Copyright @ 2002 by KathrYn N. Bush

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any means without the prior written consent of the copyright holder, excepting brief quotes used in reviews.

Printed in the United States of America
￼Dedication and Thanks

My sincere gratitude to Joyce who was kind enough to type my entire manuscript.

I dedicate this novel to my beloved family - each one - and to my closet ftiends.

A special dedication to all those who suffer from post polio Syndrome as I do. You can have a near normal life if you will just take time to rest about thirty minutes when you become tired. This is not only necessary but imperative!

Your activities can be many ifyou discipline yourselfto consider the pause to rest in tretween as important as the activity you are involved in.
￼FOREWORD

Polio Is Not For EverYone!

I was stricken with Polio at the tender age of eighteen months. I was too young to be bitter or prejudiced - I just couldn't walk - for six whole months! My siblings had to literally carry me everywhere I needed or wanted to go. Their kindness was overwhelming because they were aware of how fortunate they were not to have been stricken with Polio as I was. Recognizing my present personality traits, I am certain I connived to be taken some places totally unnecessary just to see if they would agree to take me!

Eighteen months is pretty young, but I was already talking like a magpie and had nothing more to do, I am sure, than to think of more places to go. They were very unselfish and gave in to my pleas'

There is no doubt in my mind that my sisters, Mickey and Irene, took up a lot of time reading to me.

They say I was a very sweet child - perhaps I had to be to have people wait on me so lovingly. I'm sure I saw something at times akin to pity in their eyes, but I interpreted it as gratefulness to God no one else was stricken with the dreaded Polio.

Many times during World War II, I listened to the Radio chats of President Roosevelt and marveled at this tremendous ability to overcome his personal struggle with Polio. He led our nation out of the Great Depression and helped make us victorious in World War II.

Then comes the nuisance in my life called Post Polio Syndrome! It should have been sufficient to have suffered Polio, but this is unbelievable. No virus is involved - just unwanted sometimes very severe pain - causing life during such times to be absolutely miserable!

I will say one thong for my P.P.S. It truly gives a variety of nuisance pains. One time it will be in my neck. Since I have four whiplash injuries, that really gets to me for 4 or 5 days. Then there is my right foot. I had to have corrective surgery for Polio damage when I was 22years old. It had a heyday with that one.

Sometimes I go for a week or two with no problems or symptons at all to speak of, then a different spot in my weary body will be affected.

When I first took the uncomfortable tests that determined I have Post Polio

Syndrome, being only human, I acted like an invalid for a couple of weeks - even

had my family wait on me.

Being a very active individual, I quickly decided Id probably had this

uncomfortable condition for years and called it arthritis. I made up my mind right then and there that I was not going to let this ruin my life. I may have it forever, and there may be no cure, but I vowed even ifl had to go in pain, I was GOING! I plan to live my life as God planned in spite of POST POLIO SYNDROME.

Kathryn N. Bush, Golden Writer
￼Table of Contents

Part One - First Time Alone

ChapterOne,AlonelWent! ChapterTwo,ThenThereWereThree ChapterThree,AlmostLikeGrandpa's ChapterFour,Bathtubluxury

ChapterFive, FunWith Cousins ChapterSix,HeavenlyAroma....

Chapter Seven,WhatAThunderstorm.

ChapterEight,AmI ReallyHomesick?. ChapterNine,TheOldChickenHouse. ChapterTen,Grandma's'AutomaticWasher" ..........41 ChapterEleven,Alone

ChapterÏwelve, No LongerPetrified.

ChapterThirteen, Her Chocolate Cake Is Famous.

ChapterFourteen, RockAndWorry.....

Chapter Fifteen, Wes Was Like This ChapterSixteen,Dangerlurks..

ChapterSeventeen, HorseshoeslnEarnest

ChapterEighteen, HerBuggyCanFly

ChapterNineteen, Glorious Petunias. ChapterTwenfy,GardenClubAndBibleStudy. .........69 Chaptertwenty-one, She Cares . . ......73 Chaptertwenty-two, Best Organ Pumper ........75 Chapter twenty-three, MMM - Cotton Candy Chaptertwenty-four,Grandpa'sFlyingMachine...... ..........79 Chaptertwenty-five, MeetingAtTheWell .

Chaptertwenty-six, SwimmingHole.

Chapter twenty-seven, No School - No Play!

Chaptertwenty-eight, Invention Stolen. Chaptertwenty-nine,ThinkingAboutCharlie. ..........89 ChapterThirryAtLeastlCanWalk ...........91 Chapter thirty-one, Now I Understand Why Grandma Kept Nagging Me. . . . 95 Chapterthirfy-two,TreesThatFlourish.

Chapterthirty-three, Love Was HerMain Ingredient . . . .

Part Two - The Great Depression

ChapterOne,BumperCornCrop Chapter Two, United We Can Send Them ChapterThree, The Last One Given.

........43 ..........45

.......49 .......53 . . . .57

.......59 ......61

.........65 ..........6j

. . . .77

.....81 ..........83

. . . . 85 ........87

........9j

. . . . . . . l0l

..... 105 . . . . . . l\i . . . 109

...........ll .......... 15

.........17 ........21

.......25 .....3l .........35 ........37 ........39
￼Part Three - After Buck Came

ChapterOne,FortyGrandchildren . '. ' ' 113 ChapterTwo,IreneRemembersTêrriffingRide.. .....' 119 ChapterThree,Tornado-AlwaysRemembered ........121

ChapterFour,ThereHe IslnThePulpit .

ChapterFive,Whose Surprise

ChapterSix, FunAtCheckers

ChapterSeven,AllEyesOnTheRoad .. ChapterEight,sleepingProfits. ChapterNine,swingingGrandma.

ChapterTen, PremiumWatermelons Sell First ChapterEleven,FotchHasGoodEye

Chapter Twelve, Peach Pickin'Time

ChapterThirteen, Lunch - Kids'Style ChapterFourteen,TopThisOne!.. ....145 ChapterFifteen,NotSoPaleAnymore .... ....147

ChapterSixteen, ScaryBridgeTales .. .... '... ChapterNineteen,HomeAtlast... ...157

151 ChapterSeventeen,ReverseRetribution! . '....153 ChapterEighteen,MailCall. .........155

Epilogue

..'.161

......125 ........127 ....... ' 129

.... '. l3l ......133 ....135

...... '..137 .........139

. . . l4l . . . . . . . . .143
￼PART ONE

FIRST TIME ALONE
￼
￼CHAPTER ONE Alone I Went

Standing together petrified, my Mother, my brother Buck and I were glued to the spot staring in horror at the bright yellow rim of the black tornado cloud rapidly approaching our city. We could see the horrendous destruction blended in with the sickening yellow underneath but covering the entire area near the horizon. Later, they told us it was actually twin tornadoes that struck every.thing in the patch ofdestruction.

Much of our entire downtown area was leveled, and Gainesville was referred to as'A City Laid Waste."

To our dying day, each of us who experienced the devastation of the terrible storms will remember the sound of the mighty thunder that sounded like many freight trains settling down in a freight yard.

Our family was extremely fortunate to have us all alive even though most of us were in different locations in town. We tried desperately to get on with our lives. However, at least once weekly tremendous thunderstorms occurred in the evenings, bringing back anew fears of another tornado. I, particularly, was perified each time I heard thunder lurking in the dark clouds, even though I knew they were not the same.

By the time school was out, Mother and Daddy made arrangements for me to spend a couple of weeks at Grandma and Grandpa Reynolds' farm to give a change of scenery. They all felt it would be like a tonic to me. I had never visited the farm alone before, and I was a little uneasy. However, my Mother knew Grandma would keep me so busy with chores and teaching me things a young girl should know that I'd have little time to fret over my recent memories, horrible as they were.

Reluctantly, I packed the large suitcase I had borrowed from my older brother, Curtis. He had earned the money to buy that bag on his paper route. He kept the suitcase in a bag with a zipper to protect it. Since Curt and I were pretty good buddies, he knew that I would take care ofhis prized possession.

As I packed, I wondered why I was the only one going. Mickey and,/or Buck usually went with me. "Oh well," I said to myself, "maybe now that I'm older, Grandma and I will learn to like each other better. Without her favorite Grandchild, Mickey, along, she just might pay a little attention to me! It might not be so bad after all, being there by myself."

After coming to the above conclusion, I started paying more attention to choosing the clothes from my meager wardrobe. This Great Depression had
￼Kathryn Bush

made almost all of America without enough funds to live on. My Mother was a great seamstress, and somehow she managed to keep us in clothes that were presentable. Since I was the youngest ofthree daughters, hand-me-downs were plentiful in my closet, but thank goodness, my two older sisters took pretty good care of their clothes. On a rare occasion, my Mother would surprise me with a new dress.

My Daddy drove me to the farm, and, on the way I suddenly had misgivings, and wished I were not going.

But soon I saw Grandpa waiting for me as soon as Daddy turned into his yard. I jumped out of the car as soon as it stopped and ran toward him. Grandpa swooped me up in his arms in a great hug, and whispered in my ear, "I have the Checkers all set up. Care to try to beat me?"

I felt myself smiling from ear to ear because Grandpa knew how much I loved to play Checkers - especially with him. Sometimes I even won.

I turned around and looked almost sadly at my Daddy. The hug I gave him assured him that he was still number one with me. I promised to have a good time, and he promised to pick me up in two weeks - after church of course' I watched a little apprehensively as Daddy drove away.

When I would have carefully picked up my belongings in Curtis' suitcase, I discovered Grandmother who was waiting at the door.

I looked up at my Grandmother as I went through the door. I couldn't help wondering why she was not out in the yard to meet me also. Before I gave that much thought, she said, "Your Grandpa was so anxious to see you, I thought I'd just wait at the door."

I softened a little and returned her smile.

Not long after our short visiting period - which lasted only a few minutes since our whole family had spent an overnight with our Grandparents at Christmas time - Grandpa led me into the parlor. He indeed had our Checker game ready to start, as he had promised. I cheerfully sat down to see if my skills had improved since last summer. Grandma excused herself saying something about bringing us some lemonade.

Grandpa, as expected, won the first game. I smiled good-naturedly, but I had picked up on two methods he used for winning that I had never noticed before. On the second game, I executed those newfound moves and I defeated him soundly!

Grandpa threw back his head and laughed heartily. "Young Lady, it didn't take you long to figure out the new moves I recently adopted. My friend, Josh, who is from Indiana, showed me those when we were playing last week. He is now working for me in Commerce," Grandpa said.

"Grandpa, you work so har4 I'm glad you take time out now and then for a Checker game," I said sincerely.

'All work and no play, I always say," Grandpa answered a little flippantly, but I could see he was moved with my concern.

Grandma came in about that time with the large pitcher of lemonade, glasses and fresh baked sugar cookies.

"She must not be as 'Anti-Katie" as I thought. Those are my favorite cookies," I reasoned happily as I took the first delicious bite.

12
￼FORTY GRAND

"I am just going to sit here and watch for awhile," Grandma said companionably. If the truth were known, Grandma could beat any of her forty grandchildren at will; and, many times, she even beat Grandpa.

Was it my imagination or was Grandma actually rooting for me at many crucial moments in our games? I began to take some notice of this. Yes, I think she did root for me on that last play. She smiled at me then at Grandpa. "Bud, this girl has sharpened her game since last time. You are going to have to really concentrate to beat her!"

Grandpa raised an eyebrow, tinged with white, and said, "you're right, Mattie. Just last summer, I even had to let her win occasionally. Noq I will be lucky if she will let me win." Grandpa smiled his crooked smile he used when he was pleased.

I sifted through their words, separating the nonsense from the truth, and decided ifI could beat Grandpa, I surely could beat Mary and Cary when I saw the later in the week.

Ever so often, I felt Grandmab eyes on me. When I'd look up, her expression was not critical as I'd expected" but she seemed to have a kind, even approving attitude toward me. Still a little skeptical, I continued to plat Checkers in earnest. I really had to think about my moves to ever beat Grandpa.

Grandpa suddenly leaned back in his chair and declared, "Mattie, this girl is getting to be an expert! Why don't you play her a game or two and let me have a chance to catch my breath?"

Grandma, taken completely by surprise, slowly rose from her chair and sat down in the chair Grandpa was holding for her.

"Noq Bud, you know I don't play this game very often."

"The way you play this game, you don't NEED any practice!" Grandpa grinned knowingly.

I have a strong feeling Grandma let me win the first game for several reasons, the least ofwhich was that she knew on the second she would beat me soundly - which she did!

I gathered up my bruised pride and concentrated with all my might to beat Grandma on the third game - which I did. She didn't just let me win either, she had not leamed to defend against those two new moves Grandpa had taught me today.

All three of us had a good laugh out of the furrowed brows necessary to defeat anyone today.

Grandma excused herself again saying that it was time for her to start supper. "may I help?" I asked quickly, kind ofhoping she would say no.

"Not this time. You just got here. You continue with your Checker games, and

you can wash the dishes, ifyou will. Ethel says that you are getting real good at that."

"Yes, Ma'am," was all I could manage. It was true - I was getting good at doing dishes, but that really did not mean that I enjoyed doing them!

l3
￼
￼CHAPTER TV/O

Then There Were Three

The only real fun I derived from washing dishes was preparing the suds before starting. After I had worked up what I considered to be enough suds, I picked up the three oatmeal bowls Grandma had served us soup in for dinner. She had carefully explained to me that they, along with three others, had just arrived from the mail order house. Tonight was the first time she had used them. Special care must be given in washing the bowls.

Perhaps the lecture Grandma had given me to use caution when washing her bowls had something to do with it, as she had made me nervous. I rather think that, along with my unusally slippery, sudsy hands, did the trick. Anpvay, as I picked up the bowls they never saw the dishpan - they fell with a loud sickening crash at my feetl

In the door appeared an instant Grandma - horror and anger all over her face!

"Young Lady, that's the last time you'll wash my dishes! Now grab the broom and dustpan from the pantry and clean this mess up!"

My eyes had filled with tears of embarrassment and shock. I just was not used to Grandma's homemade soap. It took so much soap to work up a lather that I had used entirely too much.

"Grandma, I am so sorry! Your oatmeal bowls - they just slipped out of my hands," I wailed. I could tell from Grandma's face that she was convinced I dropped the bowls on purpose to keep from washing dishes.

"The deed is done, so get it all cleaned up and go in with Grandpa. He will be playing the organ. When I finish up in here, we'll all sing." She softened a little. Grandma muttered something I couldn't make out, but I did not stick around long enough to find out what it was. I couldn't believe my good fortune - I really had not broken the bowls on purpose; but now I didn't have to wash dishes this

whole visit!

Grandpa asked, "What happened" Sugar Babe?"

I sobbe{ "My hands were too slippery and the new bowls were heary. They

just fell before I could even get them to the dishpan."

"I know you did not drop them on purpose; and your Grandma will soon

realize that, too. She is a very fair person. It's just that it took three whole weeks for the bowls to arrive."

I said, hopefully, "I have some money saved up. Maybe Grandma will let me buy her some new bowls to make up for my breaking those."

"That won't be necessary. Just try to be extra careful next time - and there will be a next time after she gets over your breaking her special bowls. Think on
￼Kathryn Bush

the bright side - we did get to use them once tonight!" Grandpa smiled kindly around his large white moustache.

Grandpa started playing the organ softly. He looked at me and said, "Sugar Babe, would you like to pump the organ for me? I've had a hard day and it would help me a lot."

I couldn't believe my ears! I had never been allowed to pump the organ before and I eagerly put a lot of energy into this joyous task. Mickey or Irene occasionally pumped the organ for Grandma, but here I was pumping for Grandpa. The broken oatmeal bowls flew completely out of my mind!

Grandma came in quietly and put a hand on my shoulder. "Katie, you may select the first song for us to sing."

I was so relieved to be in Grandma's good graces that I chose what I knew to be her very favorite hymn. We sang with gusto. That first evening of my visit, we sang my favorites, Grandma's hymns and even some of Grandpa's Western favorites. It seemed the singing helped all of us erase the memory of the unfortunate bowls!

Finally, I leaned my head upon Grandpa's arm. I was so sleepy that I dozed offhappily.

Grandpa said softly, "I'11 carry her upstairs. Is her pallet ready?"

Grandma nodded.

After Grandpa carried me effortlessly upstairs, they both tucked my sleeping

form into the comfortable pallet. (A pallet was the forerunner of a modem sleeping bag.)

Grandma paused, looked back at me and said, "She looks so small as she lies there asleep."

"That fiery disposition of hers is completely calmed down and she appears so peaceful."

"I don't have a fiery disposition, Grandpa," I said" rousing enough to hear what they were saying.

"Would you look at herl I thought she was sound asleep," Grandma said.

"I was," I murmured into my pillow.

"Soon I'll teach her how to churn," Grandma said.

"Don't try to teach her too much too soon, Mattie. She is only a little girl,"

Grandpa warned.

The smile on Grandma's face was hard to interpret, but I left Grandpa to

think about it alone, because I Had drifted offto sleep where there was no worry about broken oatmeal bowls.

l6
￼CHAPTER THREE

Almost Like Grandpa's

As I walked down the stairs to the kitchen for breakfast, I overheard Grandpa tell Grandma that he was taking me with him to Maysville today to see the most recent house heï built. He said they were finishing the wiring, etc. this week.

I heard Grandma agree with him that it would be a good idea.

*Good Morning," I said cheerfully. They both looked up and smiled graciously at

"Did I hear correctly that Grandpa is taking me to see his latest house today? That's great! I have always wanted to see one." I was all excited.

"You are indeed going with me. Grandma has some sewing to catch up on, so you and I will have a great day together. There is a new small café that recently opened in Maysville, so we will try that one for lunch. I have had a bunch of sandwiches for lunch lately, so it will be a nice change. In my line of work, you are not always near a restaurant."

"It will be nice not to prepare a lunch for your large appetite for a change." Grandma winked at her six foot three husband.

'As soon as you finish your breakfast, Katie, we will be off to the sleepy town of Maysville."

"Yes, Sir!" I cried and started eating my breakfast as quickly as possible. "Slow down, Katie." Grandma said smilingly. "Maysville won't run off."

As we were riding rapidly along in Grandpa's Model T Touring car, I couldn't

believe I d eagerly accepted Grandpa's offer to ride into Maysville today. His driving made me very nervous, but his offer to show me the house he was finishing up was too tempting to turn down.

"Sugar Babe, I want to tell you that the house we are going to see is being built for our new minister. You know we belong to Wilson's Church. This house is less than two blocks from the church. Wall felt it would be the perfect distance from the church both for the Minister's family's privacy and the fact that he could just walk to the church without having to cross that old railroad track, as he would have ifwe had built on the other lot under consideration.

I was acutely aware that Grandpa never said anything in a few words, but it didn't matter this morning. Nothing could dampen the fact that I was spending my first full day at the farm with my beloved Grandpa.

I tuned back in to what Grandpa was saying. "The church voted to use the plans I used to build our own house. They liked the looks of mine, and in these hard times, it saved a little money not to have to order new blue prints. I made the
￼Kathryn Bush

Parsonage a little bigger than ours and made a few changes; but it is basically the same." Grandpa said softly remembering he had built his own house for his Bride.

"I love your house, Grandpa."

Grandpa grinned down at me with real affection. "You're a great Kid'" "Grandpa, when Grandma found out where we going today, she told me I

would probably see Guy and she said he is the electrician wiring your Minister's house. Isn't he the twins and Woody's brother?" I asked.

"He is indeed. You haven't seen him in several years, have you? In fact, you haven't been here long enough to see Mary and Cary yet, but you will see them soon."

I was thoughtful. "No, Grandpa, it has been about three years since I saw Guy. Of course I saw Mary and Cary last summer. I heard that Guy was off learning to be an electrician."

"You are an observant little girl. That is exactly where he was. But noq he has been working for me about ayearl'Grandpa stated.

"ls Guy a good electrician?"

"One of the best. He has been a great help to me and I have come to depend on him. I can't be everywhere at once, and I know if Guy is on the job, I can relax a little," Grandpa finished sincerely.

"Last night, when you were playing the organ and we were singing, I couldn't help wondering why you don't put electricity in your own home. Now that you trust Guy so much, couldn't he install the wiring for you, Grandpa?" I asked sincerely.

"Now, hold on, Sugar Babe! I really need Guy right now on the houses we are building."

Grandpa saw the earnest look on my face. "l know reading by lamp light leaves a lot to be desired. One of these days, I'll make a special effort to modernize our house with electricity and indoor plumbing. Right noq I stay so busy building other peoples'houses, I really have not found it too pressing for such facilities just yet. When you live in the country you expect a few inconveniences."

I thought to myself, "Yeah, like the three holer outhouse!" Aloud' I said, "Yes, Sir."

Now Grandpa drove over the steep railroad track and into the yard ofthe new parsonage. I looked over at Wilson's Church down the way and thought how convenient it would be for the Pastor and his family to live so close to the church.

Grandpa could stop his car almost as fast as he could drive, so we were beside the house in no time.

I opened the door and ran quickly to the corner ofthe porch. Grandpa, surprised, said, "What is it, Sugar Babe?"

I didn't answer until I found the metal plaque which read:

Built by: Jasper M. Reynolds June 7, 1936

I said beaming, "Mary told me last summer that you put a plaque on every house you build, and I wanted to see for myself."

l8
￼FORTY GRAND

Grandpa exhibited a full Grandpa smile and said rather proudly, "Just a quirk of mine to let everyone know I did my best."

"Judging from your house and this one, you should be very proud"" I said with my admiration.

As we reached the top ofthe new stairs, the front door opened and Guy came toward us with his hands outstretched. He gave me a big hug and winked at Grandpa. "Katie, you've really grown since I last saw you." Guy stood back to look at me. "Pretty little thing, too!"

"I grow about an inch or so a year. And thank you for the compliment. You look great and the same except..." I trailed off.

Guy laughed heartily. "Yeah, I know - except that I have less hair. Most ofthe Reynolds clan have premature white hair by my age and a full head of hair at that. I must have inherited genes from my mother's side. At least, mine is not completely white - what I have left, that is."

Grandpa grinned the got serious. "Guy, are you just about ready to finish up this job? Remember, our Pastor's family is expecting to move in next Thursday."

"Yes, Sir. I should be completely done by Wednesday noon," Guy said.

"That's great. I saw Pastor Martin in the hardware store earlier this week, and he said his wife is getting anxious to move in." Grandpa had a twinkle in his eyes as he recalled how anxious his own wife, Mattie, had been to move into their own house years ago. This one did not have the unique hand molded bathtub he had lovingly fashioned for his bride, but he had instructed the plumber to install indoor plumbing, so that was a plus.

"Sugar Babe, come along and I'll show you the whole house. You will be able to detect the minor changes we made."

After we said good-by to Guy, we climbed back into Grandpa's shiny car. Before Grandpa cranked his car, he turned to me and said, quite seriously, "Last week, I had an opportunity to buy two prime cemetery lots in Wilson's Church yard - right in the middle of ones many members of our "Reynolds Clan" have bought. Would you like to see them while we are this close?" Grandpa's face was solemn.

"Oh no, Grandpa!" I almost shouted. "l don't even want to think of the time when you and Grandma are not at your house, expecting visits from us all." I was horrified.

"I'm sorry, Sugar Babe. I didn't mean to upset you. It is just a fact of life and I was able to buy the choice two lots. Forgive me for being so morbid. Now - remember I have a lot of houses to build" so I plan to be around a long time. Feel Better?" Grandpa finished lamely. It was not often word ailed him.

"Maybe a little. I know what, Grandpa. Why don't we drive down to Hurricane Shoals instead. I love to look at that water cascading over the rocks." I said suddenly wanting very much to see the Shoals.

Grandpa was happy for a diversion and offwe went to spend a pleasant time enjoying the same Shoals the Indians had been fascinated with so many years ago.

T9
￼
￼CHAPTER FOUR

Bathtub Luxury

When I waked up, the great time Grandpa and I had enjoyed yesterday was still in my thoughts - especially the fun at seeing Hurricane Shoals again. That special place never fails to fascinate me. I decided that I would make a special effort to be nice and helpful to Grandma. I really appreciated the effort she seemed to be making to be good to me. She still won't let me wash the dishes, and I will enjoy that time while I can, but I am sure that will change soon.

I walked into the large kitchen with the huge old stove, and found Grandpa and Grandma finishing their first cup of coffee leisurely while waiting for me to come downstairs.

"Mornin'!" I said cheerily. "Grandpa and I had such fun yesterday. your Pastor's house is so beautiful and it is so much like yours." I said showing what a good mood I was in.

"Good morning to you!" Grandpa and Grandma said in unison. The smiles on their faces was worth the extra effort. Grandpa and I filled Grandma in on the activities of yesterday.

Grandma asked, "Did you get to see Guy?"

"Oh yes Ma'am. He is such a nice man and a great electrician. I am rather proud to be his cousin," I said nicely.

"I'm glad. Marie raised a fine family. All of them are kind and considerate, but each has his or her own brand of a sense of humor. Their Father, Roy, had a marvelous sense of humor and I guess he passed that on to his children."

"While you ladies discuss the rest of our forty grandchildren, I have to go to work!" Grandpa smiled as he finished the last gulp of his second cup of coffee. Grandma and I watched as we followed with our eyes the trail of red Georgia dust that meant Grandpa was already speeding toward Maysville.

Grandma turned to me and said, "How about another cup of Kettle Tea?" (That was a Great Depression concoction consisting ofhot water from the kettle, about one-third cup of milk and two teaspoons of sugar. Most children and some adults enjoyed this often.)

"That will be great. I was listening so hard" I didn't really get to enjoy my first cup." I said politely. "By the way, Grandma, while we are having our second cup -"

"This will be my third cup of coffee." Grandma interrupted.

"Okay, what I would like for us to talk about is your own special bathtub. Mickey and some of the others have told me how it was made, but I would like to
￼Kathryn Bush

hear the story from you." I said sweetly but sincerely.

Grandma's face lit up when she started talking about her special bathtub' "First ofall, you have to take into consideration that your Grandpa built my

bathtub when he built this house for us soon after we were married. That smooth as silk finish he accomplished then is still just as smooth today, after all these years. My tub was then and is now a wonder to have in a country house with no other plumbing facilities."

"You have heard correctly from everyone how Grandpa painstakingly and lovingly, I suppose, molded my bathtub with his own hands. When he had it in the exact shape he wanted it, he left a drainage hole (like modern bathtubs). Before he molded the bathtub, Grandpa had connected a drainpipe to the outside near the horse trough. When he connected that to the tub, it was obvious he thought of everything possible to give me the privacy I craved. He really built me a beauty!"

I was fascinated by Grandma's story - not so much because of what she was saying, but that she could cal forth so much emotion in her voice in the telling! I said quietly, "Thank you, Grandma, for telling me the real story about your

awesome fub."

Not willing to leave her magic mood so quickly that had caused Grandma's

unexpected emotion to surface, I said" "One more thing I'd like to know is how you get hot water to fill your tub when you are ready to take a bath."

Grandma still looked contented as she proceeded to tell me about the massive old iron stove that had been in her family well since they moved into this house. "You see, these huge old stoves have a large water reservoir on the side that keeps water hot after meals have been cooked. It takes a lot of stove wood to get the stove hot enough to cook properly. The heavy iron construction of the stove keeps the water hot for many hours."

Grandma continued with a smile at one corner of her mouth that us kids seldom saw "I remember one morning when our children were young. After I had served breakfast, your Grandpa had to leave early for work and the kids (our three girls and six boys) frantically managed to catch the school bus, I sat down to enjoy a second cup ofcoffee. I decided to take a long, leisurely bath in my own special tub."

"Granted it was a little inconvenient for me to transport the hot water from the reservoir in the stove, but I had done this so many times, I scarcely noticed. "I'll use the new scented soap the Watkins salesman sold me last week, I decided. Usually, I only buy vanilla extract and such items from him, but the

soap smelled so nice, I couldn't resist. Anything would be an improvement over the homemade Lye soap!"

Grandma said with a wistful grin on her face, "Sometimes I wish the Watkins man and others would carry more of the items we need so that I wouldn't have to hitch up Nellie Belle so often to go into nearby Maysville." When she thought further about this, she added" "Since my trips into Maysville are the social highlights of some weeks, I guess I shouldn't complain."

"I was in frail health for several years, and your mother, Ethel, had to start helping with the cooking," Grandma said.

"I know. She has always reminded us how she started making biscuits when she was nine years old. She insists she had to stand on a stool," I said'

22
￼FORTY GRAND

"That she did. It wasn't long before she wanted to start cooking other things, too. My other two girls were older than Ethel, so they almost took over the household chores until my health improved," Grandma said softly, remembering.

"Even Aunt Flora," I said before thinking. "She seems to hate housework."

"She does now, but back then, she would beds that would make an Army sergeant proud,' Grandma said.

"That left the cleaning and the ironing to Aunt Ruth, right?" I asked.

"That's about the size of it," Grandma finished.

"Grandma, when I looked very closely at your tub, in the back, I saw

Grandpa's name and a date."

Grandma smiled broadly. "Your Grandpa signed his name to works he was

proud of. Many of the large homes in and around Commerce have plaques on the corner stone saying, "Built by Jasper M. Reynolds" and a date. He is probably the most respected builder around these parts today." There was that crooked smile on Grandma's face again.

Pride welled up in my chest to think that my beloved Grandpa was so well- known and respected for his building sturdy attractive houses.

"It takes a lot of stove wood to get the stove hot enough to cook on, as I said, but, once it is ready, hot biscuits and./or corn bread bake in the oven while a meat or two and several vegetables can be cooked on the top surface in old iron pots. The warmer above keeps bread and potatoes wann for a long time."

"In other words, you can put as many things on the top ofthe stove as there is room, because it is hot all over the top surface, right?" I asked with interest.

Grandma was about to agree with me when she suddenly looked out the window and nodded her head. Before I could wonder what was going on, the side door burst open and the twins, Mary and Cary rushed forward to greet me! I was so surprised" but excited as I thought they were staying in Commerce at an aunt's house, for two more days. "We talked our Aunt into bringing us home a couple of days early when Austin told us you were here aheadyl' Mary said quickly.

Cary smiled broadly as he too seemed glad to see me.

'Aunt Ellen packed us a lunch with enough to include you, Katie," Mary said. She turned to Grandma, "Please let Katie go with us now to our house and I'm sure Woody can make some lemonade to go with these ham sandwiches. Pretty please, Grandma. We haven't seen Katie since last summer and we have so much to catch up on."

Grandma smiled and said" "How could I say NO to such a plea? Go ahead" Katie, but be sure to be back before supper." To herself, Grandma said, "I'11 have to wait a little longer to start instructing Katie on chores and how to learn to manage a household. Bud was right - she is just a little young. I'll have to make her want to do them. I'll start with churning. She'll enjoy that."

Grandma graciously said, "Good to have you back kids. Now run along - I think I'll take my rest early today."

z3
￼âvcu e 14ts
￼CHAPTER FIVE

Fun With Cousins

The three of us cousins skipped happily along toward Aunt Marie's house. we were talking like magpies trying to catch up since we saw each other last summer. Suddenly, I became aware of Grandma's voice calling me. She motioned to Mary and cary to run along ahead and told them I'J ioin them shortly.

The twins hurried on anxious to see their other and sister, woody, as they had been at their auntt for a few days.

"I'd appreciate it ifyou could be back here by 5 o'clock sharp as I have to explain to you how to do the churning for me tomorrow morning. I can do that before I get busy with supper." Grandma said almost sweetly.

I got all excited. "Grandma, do you mean you are reâlly going to let me churn? Mickey always does that for you. you bet I'll be home'bv five."

I couldn't quite understand the slight smile and satisfied loôk on Grandma's face.

"loy run along. Mary and Cry are probably home by now" Grandma turnec toward the house, secretly anticipating her afternoon rest which usually lasteo for two hours.

._ Just past Grandpa's workshop, I stooped down to pick a small bouquet of wild flowers. I thoughtAunt Marie might like them.

. Happily I hurried along when suddenly I came to an abrupt halt! In a hole on the side of the path lay a large snake coiled and ready to strikè at me. I screamed at the top of my lungs even though I was glued to the spot with fright.

I heard Austin's voice yell at me to stay calm and very still. Ée was on his horse_and coming toward me at a full gallop. When he was close enough, he aimed his rifle at the snake. All it took him was a single shot! He then scioped me up without dismounting and headed back toward his home.

^ Aptil is Mary and Cary3 brother and is the Overseer of Grandpa's large fury H" had stopped by his house for a sandwich before continuing tris outiJs. Lucky for me!

Austin said gently, "That was not a poisonous snake - itjust helps keep the rat population down. Normally, I would not have killed it, but vôu *eie ,o fi:ightened, I wanted you to feel safe."

I said softly, "Thank you, Austin. I was terrified. All snakes scare me to death."

Austin grinned and said, "well, we're here now. The kids are really looking forward to your visit this afternoon. They have elaborate plans to enteriain you.':
￼Kathryn Bush

With a sweep of his hand, he indicated the hopscotch and marble games were all

set up.

"I can't wait!'I said. "Thank you again for coming to my rescue"'

Austin's large grin told me I was welcome. After he helped me downaom his

horse, I sped towaid Aunt Marie and Woody waiting on their porch. I'd alreldy greeted the twins, but they could tell how glad I was to see them again. All ofus looked forward to our usual games'

We walked inside. The ham sandwiches their aunt had made had been carefully cut so that all of us could share them. Woody had made lemonade',

we sat down at the large table with a long bench on each side. Aunt Marie and uncle Roy had six children in all - four now living. uncle Roy had_died several years Àgo, but Aunt Marie had done a fine job of raising her children alone. Ii helped to be so near her sister, Flora, and Grandma and Grandpa. Years ago, Grandpa had built both their houses and he enjoyed their living near him. His large family meant a lot to him.

Auitin insiited on taking me home on his horse. After we got as far as Grandpa's workshop, I asked him to let me walk the rest of the way. I sorta wanteà to check oulthe Smokehouse to see all those hams Cary said were always hanging in there.

Âsl waked slowly along, I observed the back of my grandparents' house, always amazed that my Grandfather built the house - much of it with his own hands. It looked as if it would last forever.

I reached the Smokehouse and carefully opened the squeaky old door. After I adjusted my eyes to the semi-dark room, I saw with wonder that it did indeed contuin many hams hung on hooks. I wondered how many ofthem were country hams - my favoritel

Just as I was having visions of country ham, red-eye gravy and some of Grandma's wonderful hôt biscuits, I heard the sickening sound of that ancient door closing. I ran toward it, but I was too late! I was locked in this eerie place and no one even knew I was in here.

I was getting more panicky by the minute when suddenly I heard Austin's

voice telling mJtte'O get me out in a hurry. I was filled with relief - how in the

world did he know I was in here?

The door slowly creaked open. Austin poked his head in and sai4 "I turned

around to make sure you got home all right. Then I saw the old door to the Smokehouse closing and I took a chance you were inside."

..First the snakJand now this! You must think I can't stay out of trouble," I

said, still shuddering at the thought ofhow I might have fared ifAustin had not

spotted me.

..I don't think so at all," Austin assured me. "You are an intelligent young

lady with an inquiring mind. I'm just glad I saw the door close on you when I

did..",I guess now Grandpa will recognize the necessity to replace.that,old lock with a-new one. well I promise you one thong. From now on, when Grandma tells me to be home at five, I won't go poking around by myself!"

Austin said, "This is a very large farm; and too many things can happen if you are alone. You've made a wise decision. would you like to help me water my irorse?" Austin asked gently. "His name is Perkins. Weird name, but the man I

26
￼FORTY GRAND

bought him from when he was a colt had already named him. Sorta suits him.', Austin smiled. "Well how about it? Old Perkins is awfully thirsty."

"I'd like that. May I draw the water from the well, too?" I asked excitedly.

"Maybe next year, after you have grown a little more. That old bucket is pretty heavy."

Austin carefully placed the bucket on the rim of the water trough so that I could have the fun of seeing Perkins eagerly consuming the cool water. Being a builder, Grandpa had planned each detail of his home, even to the larger than normal water trough.

Perkins turned his head after getting his fill of the well water as if to thank me for my kindness.

"Now that Perkins is satisfied I'lljust draw another bucket ofwater so that any ofthe farm hands can water their horses with no delay. I can't draw a bucket ahead for the workers, because the cool fresh water from the well is halfthe iov of stopping by."

"What's the other half?" I asked impishly.

Our little Grandma, of course. She seems to make extra country ham biscuits and comes out with some when somebody stops by."

"I didn't know that. How kind of her!"

"She's a great little lady," Austin said with ride in his voice. Our Grandparents had trusted him with a very responsible job that would allow him to be at home at the same time. His mother's home is only a short distance away from Grandpa's home. Aunt Marie is his mother as well as the twins and Woody.

Austin had decided to take this morning break; and he suggested we move to the large porch swing that Grandpa had built so many years ago.

"does Grandpa own all that land?" I pointed to the rich bottom land near the creek and beyond.

"Oh, yes. He hired me as Overseer while he is working as a builder in Commerce and Maysville. He loves to live on this farm, but his real love is building houses. I really find it a challenge to oversee their large farm. It has given me an independence that I could not have found otherwise. I truly do take pride in years with good crops. Grandpa gives me a fair percentage of the income from the farm in good years, and he takes care ofme in the rare bad years. you can see, it works out well for both of us," Austin added sincerely.

27
￼
￼Fother
￼Mother
￼CHAPTER SIX

Heavenly Aroma

When I forced myself awake, my head was whirling with the events of yesterday. First the snake - ugh! - then the wonderful fun at the twins' house. I smiled happily before remembering the terriffing experience of being locked in that Smokehouse. Before I could get too involved in my thoughts, an aroma I could not mistake filled my nostrils.

"Country Ham!" I cried.

I threw on my clothes and quickly ran down the stairs to the kitchen.

"Is that Country Ham I smell cooking? M-m-m and Red Eye Grary with

biscuits, too. Oh. Grandma, I love you!"

Grandma grinned widely and winked at Grandpa. "Me, too." She said still

smiling.

After eating entirely too much, I said, "I can't eat enough of this country

ham! I love it."

Grandpa said, "That's another thing we have in common. I could eat this ham

every meal."

Grandma said briskly, "Katie, get your hands washed. I have a chore for

you."

My heart sank. How could I do chores after such a wonderful breakfast?

Aloud, I said meekly, "Yes Ma'am."

When I had washed and dried my hands carefully, I returned to find

Grandma with her churn for making butter waiting for me.

"Oh, Grandma. Is this my chore?" I had watched my sister, Mickey, churn

the butter many time for Grandma, but this was the first time I'd ever been allowed to perform such an important task. "I couldn't believe it when you told me yesterday you'd teach me how to chum."

"It's not hard; itjust takes a lot ofpatience to wait until the butter appears on the handle. I usually read my Bible while I'm churning." Grandma said almost softly.

"Mickey said you have read the Bible all the way through four times! Is that really true?"

"I have indeed. As you know, I raised our nine children and they required a lot of milk. Our three cows produced enough milk to keep us all healthy. That required churning every day to keep up, and I read my Bible each morning. Now, of course, with just your Grandpa and me, we need only one cow; and I chum three times a week."
￼Kathryn Bush

"Do you read your Bible every day anyway?" I asked somewhat timidly.

"Oh, yes," Grandma said quickly, "I read some each day when I have to go upstairs every afternoon to rest. My doctor has insisted that I rest for two hours after lunch. I have a tendency for migraine headaches, and I have found the daily rest keeps me from having them so often."

"What will I do while you are resting? Shall I read the book I brought with me?" I was rather eager to get started on "Heidi" and welcomed a quiet time to enjoy that. It seemed as if Grandma was going to rest for a couple of hours every day, and I realized sadly that I should have brought several ofmy favorite books.

"I still can't believe you have read the Bible so many times. I'm number one most of the time in Bible drills. You know, we have contests to see who can find a particular verse in a book of the Bible the fastest. That is easy for me, but I've never read the whole Bible - even once." I said in awe of Grandma's accomplishment.

Soon, I was churning away, almost too vigorously at first to be able to have the stamina to last until the magic butter appeared. Grandma had told me the milk she'd put in the churn was "clabbered" as was required to make butter. It was only later that I learned what clabbered meant.

As I sat there tiring rapidly, I decided I must churn more slowly in order to finish my task. I slowed my pace and looked out over my Grandparents' large farm. At least, I looked at the part I could see from my limited vantage point. I remembered the large barn and the ample chicken house, to say nothing of the outhouse a distance away. I'd never really get used to the outdoor "plumbing." Howeveq it was so much fun visiting in the country, I could excuse the lack of a few modem conveniences!

I looked off into the distance and located Cary and Mary's house. Their sister, Woody, is my sisteq Mickey's age, lacking a year. Sometimes, all of us had fun together; but mostly, I played with Cary and Mary, and when Buck was with us, he joined our group.

I looked up on the hill, and saw Aunt Flora and Uncle Pate's house. I looked carefully, and actually saw a slight movement on their porch; and I instinctively knew that was Aunt Flora rocking back and forth. I could almost see her chewing her usual gum and looking off into the distance with a worried look on her face. Many times I had wondered what concerned her so.

I glanced down at the churn, and suddenly I saw small bits of butter come up with the handle. "Grandma," I cried. "I see butter on the handle! It's just like you said. It's small, but I see it!" I was so excited.

"Now you've got it. It is always so exciting when the first butter appears; and you realize you have created this yourself. It is worth waiting for."

"When can I churn again?" I cried.

"In a couple of days. Remember I no longer have my nine children at home, and now we have only one cow. I still have to mile her every day, but I store the milk in our cool cellar. We are able to drink whatever milk we need and 'clabber' the rest for butter and buttermilk."

I was thoughtful for a moment as now I realized why she always told us at meals to "sip the milk along with your vittles." She was saving the rest of that generous supply for making butter. Fascinating!
￼FORTY GRAND

"Grandma, I didnl go up to get my book to read while I was churning." looked out over the farm and remembered the fun we'd had in past summers. The time passed very quickly.

"I've always said that with your vivid imagination, someday you'll be a writer."

"Do you really think so, Grandma?" I asked thoughtfully.

"You have the temperament and the colorful flair for using words." Grandma finished almost proudly.

"Maybe I'll just start keeping a few notes in the notebook I brought with me. Who knows - someday, I'll be glad I did." I said and decided that was a good idea.

"It's always fun to keep a sort of diary," said Grandma. Now let's get the churn into the kitchen. We have to separate the butter from the liquid. You've not only made butter, you've also made buttermilk.

Grandma expertly (out of long practice) poured the buttermilk into containers and molded the butter into pats large enough for our daily use. She solemnly poured two glasses of the fresh buttermilk for us to enjoy.

"Better make that three glasses, Mattie," said Grandpa. I'm off to work, but I love buttermilk almost as much as Country Ham."

All three of us eagerly drank the delicious milk. I'd never particularly cared for buttermilk, but I made this myself'! I asked for another glass. Not to be outdone, my Grandpa joined me.

Grandma was very pleased at my first churning experience. Her plan was workins.

33
￼
￼CHAPTER SEVEN What A Thunderstorm

It was about three o'clock in the morning. I was sleeping soundly on my pallet in a remote corner of the vast upstairs room. Grandma and Grandpa were asleep in their bed in the opposite corner of the room. All during the summers, they slept upstairs to take advantage of the cool breezes that wafted from the large windows in all four sides of the huge room. Normally, it was very pleasant.

When I heard the tremendous clap of thunder, I was so frightened I instinctively ran toward Grandma's side of their bed and jumped in beside her! I was petrified and did not wait for an invitation.

Grandma put a comforting arm around me and said, 'All of our nine children, sometimes several at a time, used to hop into our bed during a bad thunderstorm. The storms seem so much worse in this large room with all the windowsl"

Grandpa said soothingly, "This one will be over soon, Sugar Babe. You'll see."

With every terrible clap of thunder that was followed by piercing lightening, I burrowed further down under the covers.

Grandma finally announced" "OK, Katie, the storms all over. You can come up for air now."

I sheepishly emerged from the covers. "I'm so sorry I got so frightened, Grandma. I guess you are right about all those windows. When the lightening was so bad, it felt like I was bound to be the next victim."

"That kind offierce lightening rarely strikes houses around here. Remembeq we have several effective lightening rods on our property," Grandpa said trying to reassure me.

"lf you say so, Grandpa," I said" not at all convinced it could not have struck us in our beds!

"lf it is any comfort to you, Katie, these really bad storms only happen about once a month or less during the summer. We have lesser storms at other times that hardly wake us up." Grandma watched my face to see if I was comforted.

"I'm glad they don't come real often. It's not like me to come running and jump into someone's bed because I got so scared."

"Think nothing of it. Like I said, all of our children came running to our bed for comfort when the bad storms came. Now letS try to go back to sleep. We have a big day tomorrow."

"Yes, Ma'am," I said and wondered what chores she had planned for me. So faq Mary and Cary's warnings last summer to me about too many chores were
￼Kathryn Bush

wrong. Grandrna had helped me do the dishes, shs had let me churn, and she ha allowed me to gather the eggs, All of these things I really enjoyed especially the churning. 'iVhen ttrat butter appeared on the handle. I was so excited! I was beginning to suspect that I had better stop listening to my cousins and decide for myself whether or not Grandma gave me too many chores.

36
￼CHAPTER EIGHT

Am I Reallv Homesick?

When I awoke after the horrible thunderstorms that occurred during the night, I realized, I was feeling a little homesick. I missed my whole family - especially my brother, Buck. We were very near the same age, and we enjoyed doing so many things together. I am a little over two years older than he. Grandma and Grandpa had been wonderful to me, but now I have this miserable feeling that I would rather be home! Next time, I just won't come alone. Some of the excuses I heard about not coming with me were pretty weak, anylvay.

I slowly went down the stairs to the kitchen for breakfast. No aroma of Country Ham this morning! When I entered the kitchen, I saw three large oatmeal bowls with spoons on the table. Three glasses of milk were already poured beside the bowls. Grandpa was already seated at the table drinking his coffee.

"Mornin'," I said not too cheerfully.

"Good morning," Grandma and Grandpa said in unison.

"Grandpa, I've decided I'm homesick and I'd appreciate it if you would call

my Daddy to come and get me tomorrow after he gets off work. I am just not used to coming alone. Would you do that for me?" I looked sadly at him.

"Are you sure, Sugar Babe? I thought we were having a great time together." "I'm having fun, but I miss all my family."

"Well, you have all day to make up your mind - really. If you still want to go

home by tonight, I'll call your Daddy to pick you up. Better still, I will take you home myself!" Grandpa knew his fast driving scared me.

"Oh no! That won't be necessary. Daddy can come and get me," I said too quickly.

Grandpa winked at Grandma. They both knew I would never ride as far as Gainesville with Grandpa. I had been in his speeding car before - many times! Grandma broke into our conversation. "Eat your oatrneal, Katie. As soon as you finish, I'll have the churn all set up for you on the porch. Ifyou finished that

last book you were reading, you may want to get one out of the parlor."

"Yes, Ma'am!" I said eagerly. I had forgotten this was the day to churn. I ate my oatmeal in a hurry and soon had my book. I was all set to do my favorite

chore.

As I started out on the porch to settle down to churn, Grandma said to me,

"The butter on your oatmeal this morning was what you churned a couple of days ago."
￼Kathryn Bush

"Was it really? I thought it tasted especially good."

"I'm sorry the snake frightened you so! Austin and I couldn't remember how long it had been since one was found on our farm. Quite a while, I believe. I'm so glad it was a non-poisonous one. Any snake can scare me. I hate those things," Grandma said.

"Me, too. Austin killed him with just one shot!" I said.

"He is a very accurate hunter. He is much admired by his peers because it usually takes him just one shot. When you finish churning, would you like to gather the eggs for me?"

"Oh yes. Next to churning, I always wanted to collect the eggs. By the way, Grandma, I think I'm all over my homesickness. Let's just tell Grandpa when he comes homc that I've decided to stay for my fu1l visit."

"l'm so glad. Grandpa will be glad, too. Both of us are really enjoying having you with us. Since you came alone this year, you and I are having a chance to become better acquainted. That means a lot to me," Grandma said seriously.

"lt does to me, too, Grandma."

"Now read your book while you churn, and I'll get the dishes washed and clean up the kitchen."

When Grandpa returned home, both Grandma and I were eager to tell him that I had decided to stay.

"Sugar Babe, that makes me very happy! After supper, I want to teach you how to play horseshoes - Grandpa style! That is something you can practice by yourself or play with someone. I have a feeling you'll become very good at horseshoes!"

"I'm anxious to learn," I said eagerly, knowing what a champion Grandpa is known to be.

After supper, Grandpa and I went out to the place where the horseshoes were waiting. Before he left this morning, Grandpa had put the two pairs of horseshoes in readiness for us to play.

Grandpa explained that there were two methods of pitching horseshoes. One was to turn the shoes over and over, and the other was to furn the shoes round and round. Your Daddy, I believe, turns his over and over. You look like a round and round player like me!"

I tried both methods and found that I was indeed a round and round playerl Grandpa threw a few ringers here and there, and suddenly I had a ringer!

"Grandpa do you see that? I have a ringer! I actually have a ringerl"

"Now you are getting the hang of it. Soon you will have lots of ringers. Now you practice a while. I have some paper work to do. Try to practice at least an hour, and by tomorrow, you'll be able to take on Cary and Mary."

"Do you really think so? They are pretty good, so they tell me." I said eagerly. "That's the key - so they tell you." Grandpa said lightly.

After about thirty minutes, I found that I was getting about one ringer out of

three. "Either Grandpa is a great teacher, or I have a real talent for this game," I thought to myself and decided it must be a little of both.

38
￼CHAPTER NINE

The Old Chicken House

Of all the chores Grandma assigned me to do - next to churning - I really enjoyed collecting the eggs. Grandma had always trusted Mickey with this task, but Mickey was not here, and she had to ask me.

The old hen house was usually neat and clean, which was a surprise considering it was a hen house! The only real challenge in this place was the old red hen who always wanted to hang on to her eggs. All of the other hens seemed to understand we would take the eggs regardless, so they put up no resistance. "Ole Red" was another story!

I took Ole Red as a personal challenge. When I carefully eased my hand to take her egg, she always pecked at me. It didn't really hurt, but sometimes it scared me. Always it irritated me. Grandpa had shown me just how to handle heE but still she was trouble. He said she wanted to sit on the eggs so that she could have just one more brood of chickens. Grandpa said she was too old now, but no one could convince her!

Ole Red's eggs were always different from the others. They were not only brown, but had a slight reddish tint as well.

Grandma called me into the kitchen. "Did you finally get "Ole Red" to give up her egg?"

"I did Grandma, but every day, it gets harder. She is really stubborn. The young hen you told me started laying this year is the best hen. She seems to give me her eggs with a little pride."

"That helps," Grandma smiled. "Are Mary and Cary coming over in time for lunch when they come to play Monopoly with you?"

"I sorta asked them to - I hope that is all right with you."

"It is this time. I just made up some egg salad from part of yesterdays eggs. In the future, you must ask me first to be sure that I have enough food for lunch on hand."

"Yes, Ma'am. I was just so anxious to be sure they would come. With the new tips that Grandpa gave me last night on Monopoly, I just might beat them for a change. They must really play that game a lot," I said.

"On rainy days, and it gets so dark so early in the wintertime, they even enjoy playing by lamp light. Marie makes sure they finish their homework first."

"Mickey is pretty good at Monopoly, but she and Irene consider Buck and me too young to present a challenge to them. Maybe after this sumrner, I can show them how much better I can play."
￼Kathryt Bush

"Grandpa must have really given you some fine pointers," Grandma said mildly.

I quickly looked at Graudma to b9 sure that was not a sarcastic remarh but her expression was kind.

'ollere eomc the trrins," I said excitedly and ças glad to close that conversation.

After a nice lunch, whichincluded a fbw oiher tbingq Graodma decided to acld, we settled dorryn to play Monopoly. [t wasnt too long before the garne turned into tny favor and I niumphantly beat both ofmy cousins soundly;

Mary and Carywere irritatedbut impressed.

40
￼CHAPTER TEN

Grandma's'Automatic Washer"

When I awoke one morning, there was a bustle of activity in the kitchen. Grandma greeted me with, "Katie, this is washday. As soon as you have finished your oatmeal, please bring me all your dirty clothes. Here is a bag to put them ln..

"Yes, Ma'am," I said obediently. After I had my dirty clothes neatly in the bag, Grandma took my bag and hers downstairs. I followed her and I looked around puzzled. I asked Grandma, "Where is your washing machine?"

Grandma sort of grinned and said" "I guess I'm it!,'

"l don't understand" I said

"Come with me," she said.

"Would you please fetch that large bar of Lye soap fiom the pantry shelfl We'll also need the washboard leaning in the corner of the pantry. I'll go on out in the yard by those big stones and wait for you while I sort the clothes.

I stared at Grandma for a moment. I just could not understand why we would be "meeting" out in the yard with our dirty laundry! No way did it make any sense to me that we could be able to wash our clothes without a washing machine. And I was looking forward to wringing the clothes out on the wringei My mother always let me do that on washday.

As I went down into the yard, I noticed Grandma had filled two laree tubs with water from the well by the side porch. I figured I must have dawdled-a little getting the items Grandma needed because I couldn't see how she had possibly had time to fill the tubs in my absence.

Grandma read my thoughts and said, "Grandpa always draws the water for me on washdays before he goes into town to work."

I laughed, "I couldn't figure out how you had moved so fast! Now, what can I do to help? I knoq I can wring the clothes out on the wringer - except that I don't see a wringer!"

Grandma held out her two strong hands and said, ,.1 am the wringer. you can wash the small items." She placed the washboard in one of the tubs and demonstrated how to use it.

I decided all the work was with elbow power, but it looked like fun, so I rubbed away. After a few Knuckle scrapes, I finally got the hang of it. I was glad she only let me wash the small items because soon my arms became very tired.

Grandma said, "That's very good, Katie. Now we have to put all these clothes

into the other tub to rinse them. I will wring them out and hang them on the lines to dry."
￼Kathryn Bush

I was busy rinsing my small items when I heard behind me a sharp banging noise! I quickly turned to see Grandma with a wide paddle in her hand seeming to beat the heck out ofseveral pieces oflaundry! The clothes were wet and soapy, and were draped over one ofthe large rocks'

Grandma looked at my face and laughed out loud! "This is my special stain remover - works every time!"

I laughed too - so hard in fact that my stomach hurt! Grandma's primitive method of washing clothes with homemade Lye soap was indeed strange. Later, when the clothes dried in the warm sunshine, I had to admit I'd never seen clothes so WHITE. Grandma's wash day had been a fascinating experience!

42
￼CHAPTER ELEVEN

Alone

The first week of my visit had progressed more rapidly than I ha expected. I became aware that the pet peeve I had against Grandma was missing! She had not said one word about the way I walk being a habit. She has always known that I d experienced a light case of Polio when I was eighteen months old. I have always walked so close to normal that she always took it upon herself to see that I had a 100% perfect gait. This visit, however, not only had she failed to nag me about my walking, I had not even caught her looking at my feet - not once! I wondered why - as that was the main reason I never was very fond of her.

I started really noticing; and sure enough, Grandma treated me as if I'd never had a walking problem at all. My left ankle was weak when I was tired, and when I was very tired, that foot and ankle showed weakness, but my mother said that was from the fall she said paralyzed me at eighteen months.

What was she trying to do to me? Make me like her? The thought was not unpleasant, but just new to me.

I thought, "I've got to admire the way Grandma can play Checkers! If I hadn'tjust learned those two new moves Grandpa taught me, shed have beaten me good. My respect for her grew a little.

Just what did she mean when she said to me as an afterthought, "Tomorrow after our chores are over, I want to show you a special little pair of scissors." Whose scissors? What was she up to now? I'd just have to wait and see. All of us grandchildren had learned you do not hurry one ofGrandma's surprises. Still, I couldn't help being a little curious.

I finally finished my churning, and Grandma called me in to her sewing room.

"I have to sew on a few buttons today. I've been putting this offtoo long." (I thought to myself, "l can't imagine Grandma ever putting anything off!" "While you are here with me, I want to tell you that someday these scissors

will be yours," she blurted out, not savoring the surprise.

I tried to look appreciative, but all I saw was a very old pair of scissors.

"What makes these so special?" I carefully asked.

Grandma looked at my face and laughed. "You see, the thing that makes

these scissors so special is that I am the fourth generation who has owned them. They are not pretty, but they cut good" and I get quite a satisfaction out of knowing they were bought by my great grandmother for her little sewing basket. When I use my scissors, I find myself wondering just what sort of fashions they had back then. Did she also lose a button now and then. and use these scissors to clip the threads?
￼Kathryn Bush

"The scissors have always been a pleasure for me because I couldjust picture how they had been similarly used by my ancestors, to keep all their mending done," Grandma smiled wistfully.

I looked incredulously at my little Grandma. I could not believe that she could ever have such sentimental thoughts.

"I had not even considered such use ofthe scissors. I'm afraid all I saw was that they were very old. Grandma, it is really very sweet of you to want me to have your special scissors. Someday, I shall use them with pride now that I know their history."

"That's my girl!" Grandma said softly. "By the way, don't you sort of wonder why I chose YOU to get my little historic scissors? I have a host of granddaughters, you know." Grandma smiled at me in a special sort of way.

"Yes. Ma'am, I did wonder, and I came to the conclusion that of all of them, I am the most like you!" I couldn't believe I had made such a confession, but it was true!

Grandma took my hand for just the slightest moment and squeezed it lightly.

I smiled at the wonderment of finally admitting the truth. In fact, up until this moment, I had not put this thought into words.

"Grandma, not long ago, Mama and Daddy were talking about Grandpa's father, Cumberland Reynolds, you know the one that was in the Civil War. Did his wife ever use these little scissors?"

Grandma could not help smiling at my lengthy sentences for one so young, but she answered me kindly. "No, Dear. These came from my family, The Epps. I'll have to tell you more about them sometime. Perhaps a little while you are here."

Grandma said her patience was wearing a little thin, so she suggested that we eo fold a few clothes. I wasn't fooled. She was sentimental after all!

+^+^
￼CHAPTER TWELVE

No Longer Petrified

One afternoon, I was swinging in the large swing on my Grandparents' porch. I was reading a book out of Grandpa's library. I looked up and out across the vast countryside. How peaceful and quiet the large farm appeared. I had been here for almost two weeks, and I was sad to think I would soon be going home.

When I had packed my clothes to come here, the only way my parents had been able to persuade me to visit alone was to assure me that there was NO RECORD OF A TORNADO EVER HITTING ANY PART OF THIS COUNTY IN GEORGIA!

"Mama, are you sure they don't have tornadoes?" I had asked again. I was very worried. I was still acutely aware of the severe thunderstorms that seemed to occur with the regularity of at least once a week in our home of Gainesville, Georgia. That had been the case ever since the horrendous Twin Tornadoes had devastated our city on April 6, 1936 - two months ago, to be exact.

Our Mother and I lived in constant terror that another tornado would strike and wipe us all offthe face of the earthl The others in our family were frightened by the big weekly storms, ofcourse; but they did not seem to be as petrified as my Mother and I were. Maybe they did not talk about their fears as much.

Reluctantly, I had agreed to go and spend two weeks by myself with our Grandparents so that I would have a change ofscenery. I don't think anyone took into consideration that I was not very fond of my little Grandmother! I adored my Grandfather, though, so I felt that I could enjoy being with him each night when he came home from his building business in Commerce.

At eighteen months, I had a slight case ofPolio; and at eleven years, I still did not walk to suit my Grandmother! She was always telling me that the way I walked was 'Just habit." That made me rather miserable at times. I didnl exactly dislike her - I just wished she'd let me walk in peace.

As I continued to swing slowly, I was amazed to discover, as I thought about it, I was gradually becoming rather fond of my Grandma. I remembered how much I enjoyed chuming the butter. She had let me do that when I first came to visit them; and it had become my special chore. I liked to finally see the pieces ofbutter on the dash; but I had also been able to read a number ofbooks while I performed this necessary chore. I could well understand how Grandma had been able to read the Bible through four times. Amazing! I suspect she also read considerably when her doctor made her rest for a couple of hours after lunch each day. Grandma was not the type to nap while resting; so her reading was undisturbed.
￼Kathryn Bush

"l'11 be bored to pieces every day while Grandma is upstairs resting," I thought to myself when I first arrived. However, I had always enjoyed reading, and I found it fascinating to be able to select books from Grandpa's library. While looking over some of the children's books, I fancied that some were ones my own Mother had read as a child. I was pretty sure I recognized her handwriting in the margins of some of the books I picked out to read. I found it interesting that many of the ones I enjoyed were ones I realized my Mother had also read before me. It was easy to calculate her age as she was born in 1900.

I remembered with pride that Grandma had taught me to cook Country Ham and Red Eye Gravy. Grandpa had been so pleased the first time I cooked that meal. We both enjoy that combination very much.

I could never get over the fascination I felt with being able to cook so many items at the same time on the large old wood stove. Once it was hot, everything could be cooked at once, even the grits Grandma had also taught me how to cook.

For some reason, I thought of the horseshoe games I d enjoyed so much this trip, particularly after Grandpa showed me how he played' With practice' I had become so accurate with my ringers not many had been able to defeat me, at least not for long. That was one game I really excelled in, and it meant a lot to me to do something so well.

Deep in thought, I had not heard Grandma quietly come through the screen door. She stood there for a moment, then said" "Want company?"

I looked up and smiled my welcome. "l've just been swinging slowly and thinking of all the things I have done and learned in the past two weeks, Grandma! It seems I have been here longer than two weeks because we have done so much and I have learned so much from you and Grandpa."

"I hope you are enjoying your time with us," Grandma said softly'

"Oh yes," I said quickly. "Besides churning, I'm so glad you taught me how to cook Country Ham and Red Eye Gravy."

"You learn so quickly, Katie, and Grandpa and I are so happy you came alone. It has given us a chance to get to know you better. Grandpa is always telling his friends that he taught you to play horseshoes - his style. He said that now you even beat him most of the time," Grandma said pleasantly'

"Does he really tell them I beat him? I didnl at first, but now I do beat him a lot and I can tell he is trying hard!"

"Katie, you are not as anxious now when the thunderstonns come' are you?"

"No Ma'am. I only jumped into your bed out of terror that first time. I've learned that they really will pass in a few minutes. They still scare me, but I guess they scare a lot ofpeople, don't they?"

"sometimes I'm petrified!" Grandma admitted. "Even though the lightening and thunder are never pleasant, most of the time, we feel the lightening rods do their jobs. At least, it helps to think they do! The rains do help keep the crops growing," Grandma added thoughtfu lly.

I said - very grown-up like, "You just have to grin and bear it until a storm is

overl"

"Now that's the idea!" Grandma said approvingly. "Before I came out, I set

out two glasses for us to enjoy some of the buttermilk you made this morning. Want some?"

46
￼FORTY GRAND

"You bet I do!" Since I had been churning the butter, I had learned to real.ly enjoy the buttermilk. It almost tasted sweet after all that work.

I felt a definite relief to discuss the thunderstorms with Grandma. and to admit to her and to myself that the temendous fear IT felt after the tornado was waning rapidly. Perhaps I'd grown up a little in my toleration of one of natures drastic elements!

47
￼Wrfiae 6f.ndlPr

Ethel Nunn bock seot right - 1914
￼CHAPTER THIRTEEN

Her Chocolate Cake Is Fantastic

We waved goodbye to Grandpa and watched his trail ofred dust as he drove rapidly to Commerce.

Grandma turned to me and said, "Now it's time to gather the eggs. Would you please go to the pantry and bring the basket?"

"Oh, by the way, Grandpa and I want to take you Saturday afternoon to Wilson's Church to the dinner on the grounds. I will need to make one of my chocolate cakes and a churn of ice cream. I need as many eggs as possible by tomorrow morning. We should have no trouble there as all our hens are good layers."

I was so excited over the homemade ice cream and chocolate cake that I ran out with the basket to get all the eggs I could find in the hen house.

Grandma watched me with a big smile on her face. "Her enthusiasm proves shet beginning to enjoy her visit alone," Grandma thought and was pleased.

In a very short time, I appear4d in the kitchen doorway with a beaming smile. "Grandma, will sixteen eggs be enough for your cake and the ice cream? That sixteenth egg wasn't easy for me to get as "Ole Red" really wanted to keep it! "

. "That is more than enough," Grandma said, and I was so happy. "Ole Red" really doesn't like to part with her eggs. She squawks pretty loud sometimes. I have an idea, though, most of the time, her squawk is worse than her peckl"

I chuckled at Grandma's attempt at humor.

Soon Grandma made her famous chocolate cake and she had let me help with the homemade ice cream. I did fine until, along toward the last, the handle of the freezer became so hard to turn that I couldn't budge it. Grandma came to help me. She said, "You've done a finejob. I was able to get the cake packed in my cake box, and I put a few snacks in a bag for us to eat in the wagon on the way."

"That's great, Grandma. You remembered last year, you wished we'd had something to munch on as the wagon takes so long to get to church. It's fun, though. I like to dangle my legs offthe back and sing along with the others. We had such a good time last year."

"Marie told me that she and Mary and Cary are coming, too. At the last minute, Woody decided to go with us. We'll have a nice crowd in the wagon, and enough to really enjoy singing as we ride," Grandma said.

"I'm so glad they are all coming. It won't be quite the same without Mickey and Buck, but they couldn't come this year."
￼Kathryn Bush

Austin appeared from the barn. He had filled the wagon with soft hay. He also had hitched Nellie Belle up with his own horse, Perkins, securely to the wagon. It was noon, and as soon as Grandpa arrived home, we would be on our way. Grandpa was rarely late.

I looked down the road towards Commerce, and sure enough, I spotted a continuous cloud of dust which I knew was my Grandpa's speeding car! In no time at all, Grandpa was seated on the high wagon seat ready to guide us to Wilson's Church. Many years ago, he'd tried to whip the horses into speeding, but Grandma had quickly put a stop to that! She told him that half the fun of riding in the wagon to the church was the leisurely pace so that the singing would be enjoyed by all.

Grandpa got down and lifted his small wife up into the place beside him on the buckboard seat. "Everyone pile in andbe seated,'Said Grandpa.

One by one, we climbed into the wagon with Austin's help. Soon we were all comfortably seated. Mary Cary, and I were already dangling our feet off the back. I looked back and saw that Woody wanted to be back there with us, but there was not quite enough room. She settled down just behind us. I turned to Woody and said, "Woody, I think I can move over just a little, and you can just squeeze in."

"Nah, I'm fine," she said. "When we start singing, it will be easier for me to harmonize since I'm in the middle."

"You sure?" I asked, still feeling guilty to be sitting in the best place in the wagon.

"Yep, enjoy it. Next year, Mickey and I will sit there!" She grinned at me.

Grandma started singing some rounds and we all happily joined in. We sang one after another. Then we started our favorite hymns. As Grandma said when we started the hymns, 'After all, we are riding to the church!"

After we arrived at Wilson's Church, we realized we were among the last to get there. Grandpa expertly released the horses from the wagon and hitched them to a nearby tree. We would be there a while; and the horses needed freedom from the traces.

Grandma said, "If everyone will take one or two items, we can get our food to the table quickly." Most of the people may have gotten there ahead of the Reynolds clan, but no one dared use their usual table. Grandma and Grandpa were both important pillars ofthe church, and everyone respected their chosen table as for their use only. After all, Grandma was known as the greatest student of the Bible in the entire congregation. It was widely known that she had read the Bible through four times. Many people went to her for her wise advice when problems occurred in their lives. Grandpa was an Elder in the church, and had been for more years than most of the people could remember.

We realized as we were unloading our food from the baskets that almost everyone was ready to serve theirs. We quickly set our table and the Minister asked Grandpa to say the blessing. His grace was fairly short as Grandpa, as well as the rest ofus, had worked up a tremendous appetite. The only noise we heard for a few minutes was the happy consumption of delicious food.

I thought, "This is almost like our family reunions. It will be coming up very soon. I'll be able to "Pig Out" twice this summer. This occasion proved to be very pleasant, especially for the adults. It wasn't long before us kids began to be

50
￼FORTY GRAND

fidgety, as we were ready for the fun ride back home in the wagon, We saw that the food was gone and all ofthe ice cream and cake had disappeared.

Pretty soon, Grandpa hitched the horses again to the wagon for the ride back to his farm. Everyone elimbed aboard. I said to Woody, "You take my place. I'll sit in the harmonizing section."

She protested, but I insisted. She grinned happily and climbed in, immediately dangling her own feet. The only thing she had to contend with was being so close to the twins. They always teased her so. She managed to ignore them and we all had a good ride home. My ride wasn't so bad either; and it was a good spot for harmonizing!

5l
￼GÊnlPann
￼CHAPTER FOURTEEN

Rock And Worry

One morning after I gathered the eggs, Grandma told me to count out one dozen eggs and put them in a basket. She said that she wanted me to go with her up the hill to Aunt Flora's house. I immediately realized that her daughter was the one I had seen for years rocking on her porch. In fact, in anything but rainy or snowy weather, she could always be seen rocking back and forth aimlessly as if that were her mission in life. I was mildly excited to be going to visit Aunt Flora with Grandma, instead of listening to my cousins who always implied that she was just lazily rocking her time away.

"Flora never has enough eggs at one time, and it will be a treat for her."

I wondered vaguely why she never had enough eggs, but I quickly counted a dozen eggs out ofthe ones I had gathered this morning. "I don't know too much about Aunt Flora," I said. "From the distance, I always see her rocking on her front porch a lot."

Grandma laughed. 'And if you could see her up close, you'd observe that she is always chewing her gum with that same worried look on her face. Her worries are many times justified - bit the creases she has carved as wrinkles in her forehead belie her actual age. I do know that she worries too much about her boys. Her youngest, in particular, gets a little too rambunctious at times. Flora is such a gentle soul, she really does not discipline her children as well as she should. And Pate, her husband, is too easy on them as well.

"You remember Flora's son, Fotch? He never hunts with a gun. He can knock a squirrel out of a tree as quickly as Austin can with his trusty rifle. It is sometimes arnazingl"

"I've noticed many times that Camp seems to be unhappy and restless," I said.

"That's putting it mildly! He never seems content with his lot in life. I guess he will outgrow it."

"That's enough theorizing for such a lovely morning. Do we have everything we need?" Grandma was ready to start up the hill.

"Yes, Ma'am, "I replied, eager to know more about my Aunt who logs so much rocking time. "Do you think Aunt Flora will let me make the coffee?" I asked almost too eagerly, as Grandma had just yesterday taught me how

"Flora would let you clean her house, also, ifyou wanted to. I'm afraid she has long strayed from the lady who used to be proud of the way her home looked. Her worries pre-empt other things these days, and she seems oblivious to her
￼Kathryn Bush

untidy surroundings. Fotch does the best he can to see that things are livable, but, after all, he didn't get to be such a sharpshooter with that slingshot while washing dishes!" Grandma said.

"Mary told me that Aunt Flora has a son our brother, Curtis' age. She says at one time, they were real close when Curt would visit your farm."

"Mary is absolutely right. They have had some good times together. Both are fun-loving young en and each is popular with the young ladies. Especially your brother, Curtis. His winning personality is great to be around," Grandma said with a fond twinkle in her eye.

"Curt has always been kind to me and never fails, at sometime during the year to remind me, with a special sort of affection, that he and lrene carried me many a mile during the six months I could not walk (at eighteen months) when I had my slight case of Polio," I said with pride because he cared.

"Curt and Irene would not allow you to be confined to a chair. You were such a slender little thing. I even think they grudgingly enjoyed showing you offto their friends."

We were almost to Aunt Flora's front porch by now, andAunt Flora had risen from her rocking chair and held out her plump arms to her mother.

Grandma was not too much for any show of emotion, but she quickly enveloped her oldest daughter in a bear hug.

Finally, Aunt Flora noticed me. "Katie, I declare you have grown so much this year that I might not have recognized you if I had seen you without Mama." I took her remark as a compliment, and returned the mild hug she bestowed

on me.

Flora returned her attention to her mother. "Mama, if I'd known you were coming, I'd have made a fresh pot of coffee." Grandma and I were acutely aware that Aunt Flora had followed us with her eyes from the time we left Grandma's house until we approached her porch. Aunt Flora's unhappiness made her oblivious to her duties as a hostess.

I chirped up, 'Aunt Flora, Grandma taught me how to make coffee just yesterday, and I can serve it, too. May I make some for you?"

Aunt Flora looked at me begrudging the fact that even at my tender age of eleven, I could accomplish what used to be one ofthe joys ofher day.

I disappeared into the very untidy kitchen and proceeded to carefully and silently wash the coffee pot and the cups we would be using for our coffee. Aunt Flora did not even seem embarrassed because nothing in the kitchen was clean enough to use.

I could hear Grandma kindly making conversation that Flora could relate to regarding various activities of the members of her family. Aunt Flora mentioned in passing that her daughter, Gertrude, had written her a note inviting her to visit her in Maysville for a few days since she had not been with her too much lately.

Soon, my coffee was ready, and I carefully put three cups and three napkins on the tray, and I went back into the living room proudly carrying my coffee party results.

Talking over the hot coffee - mine mostly cream - proved to be a pleasant affair. Aunt Flora, as Grandma had predicted was delighted to get so many eggs at once. She surprised us by saying, "Now I can make Camp a birthday cake. His birthday is tomorrow He'll be so pleased that I will be making a cake for him. It

54
￼FORTY GRAND

has been some time since I have made anyone a cake," she finished sadly. "But - Mama, could I borrow a cup of sugar? I only have about two cups and it will take three to make the old pound cake that my family used to love so much."

Grandma grinned pleasantly, and said, "Of course." She was overcome that Flora would stop rocking long enough to bake a cake - even for her favorite son's birthday. She said to me, "Katie, why don't you run in down to our house and measure up two cups of sugar." Grandma winked at me, showing her pleasure at Flora's suggestion.

"I'll be right back," I promised and quickly slipped out the door. I returned fairly soon, bearing the required sugar and a few other items I considered would be necessary suspecting that Aunt Flora did not have a complete cupboard.

I bubbled "Grandma, you had two bottles of vanilla flavoring - one full and one just about enough to bake a cake. I brought the opened one along in case Aunt Flora needed it, too." Now, it was my turn to wink at Grandma.

"Thank you, Katie, because after you left, I realized that I had used the last of my large bottle."

Grandma and I looked at each other silently understanding there would no doubt be more borrowing of Ingredients before that cake came together.

Grandma was so pleased that her daughter was doing something for her son, that she would have probably furnished all the ingredientsjust to get her out of that rocking chair!

"Flora, if you find you need anything else for your cake, just send Fotch down. As you know, I try to keep my cupboard fairly well stocked."

"I know you do, Mama. Maybe someday some of your efficiency will rub off on me! I just do not seem to accomplish much these days. Most of the time, I just find myself rocking and worrying," Flora said softly.

Grandma felt a little sorry about her remarks she had uttered so lightly - almost with a tinge of sarcasm. On an impulse, Grandma went over and gave her daughter a quick hug. Flora could not hide the tear that rolled down her cheek.

I said brightly, "I hope there will be a piece ofcake left for us? I love birthday cakes."

Aunt Flora said unsteadily (with emotion), "You can count on it. You will get the piece with the most icing!"

Grandma and I quickly said our good-byes. Grandma added gently, "You knoq I never saw Flora so sincerely emotional - at least not in years."

"lt was almost as if she were promising us that she would get out of that rocking chair more often," I said thoughtfully.

"It was taking her those eggs the day before Camp's birthday. She just had to use them to bake him a cake. Did you notice that once she got out of that chair, she made a special effort to play her role as a hostess?" Grandma asked.

"She di{ didn't she? Do you suppose maybe now she will try a little harder to keep a better house? It really was pretfy bad, wasn't it?" I was concerned.

Grandma was suddenly very serious. "I can only hope so. Lazy habits are hard to break. If Camp would straighten up and amount to something, her worries would be lighter. Deep down, Flora is a fine person. Maybe someday, she can get her act back together." Grandma said sincerely.

"I hope so. Today, I really liked being around her. She really is a kinda sweet oerson."

55
￼Katkryn Bush

"'You got a rare impression of her today, brrt Irm going to eirnestly hope that she will become a productive persot again,: Grandma added quietly,

"Eggq sugar and vanilla flavoring spurred her on to want to make that birthday cake!" I said thoughttully.

"And whcn she does, it will be delicious! She used to be a fine cook," finished Grandma.

56
￼CHAPTER FIFTEEN

Wes Was Like This

one morning after my chores, I was a little bored. I asked Grandma if I could look at her family photograph album.

"Of course. It is on the table in the oarlor."

I knew that as I had seen the weathered book as I dusted in there yesterdav. Quickly I located the book and started looking with interest at the many photos of Grandma and Grandpa's nine children. Mostly, I was searching for pictures of my own mother, Ethel, when she was a child. I had been told thàt I looked a lor like her, but when I found several of her at various ages, I really could not finc much resemblance. I decided I did not look like her then.

After a time, I took the old book carefully into the kitchen where Grandma was stringing green beans. "Grandma, I ran across a picture of your don, wes. I really do not know much about him. could you tell me about him and his kids?-

Grandma smiled fondly,and said..I,m glad you asked. Wes is the quiet strgng qp: I have always been able to depend on him. He has three ùns, Aubrey, Clyde and Byron."

'Aubrey has always been the serious one. I wourdn't be sumrised if somedav he.chose to be a cop of some sort. In cops and Robbers gamès, he insisted on being the cop and he always got his man.,'

. "clyde and Byron followed in their father's footsteps - friendly but rather quiet."

"with nine children, I really don't see how you can remember important facts about them and their children - my cousins."

"well' they were born one at a time; and with such a large family and forty grandchildren, it has sometimes been a challenge, but Ijust try to love them ail and enjoy them when they visit!"

I looked up from another picture I was studying. "Grandma, I know uncle willard was in the war, and I have heard the stories àbout him, but I do not know his three children either. Mama said that the boy's name is Lamar and the girl's (youngest, I think) name is Eloise, but I do not know the name of his third chlild."

"l5t when I thought I had all my grandchildren,s'names firmly in my head, ll.ul _gTl'r_ name just escapes me. Now go along with you into tÉe pu.io, urrd finish looking at those pictures, and I'll rack my brain to iome up with her name. she is apretty little thing and her name is on the tip of my tongue, but I,ll just have to think about it."

"OK," I said with a grin. I never knew my Grandma could forget anything.
￼Kathryn Bush

Knowing I was pressing my luck, I sai4 "Before I go, Grandma' whi!9 ygl are thinkinfabout fhat, could you tell me a little about Aunt FloraS son Jim? I have never-heard too much about him. Fotch is the expert slingshot guy, but what did Jim ever do?"

..You are a persistent little thing, aren't you? Not many of yorr grandchildren knew either Jim or shirley. shirley married young and Jim left home early to seek his fortunes. They were both good kids, and I enjoyed them. I could always depend on them to run an errand orjust to talk and tell me oftheir activities. In hei yognger years, Flora was a conscientious mother and she raised her children right. Most of them listened.

I wasn't sure of what Grandma meant by her last remark, but I excused myself and returned to the parlor. I found myself eager to look at the rest of the pictures, possibly more than once.

58
￼CHAPTER SIXTEEN

Danger Lurks

Grandma was upstairs resting; and I was starting to read the new book Grandpa had brought to me just ye-st_elday It really was à good book, and I was looking fgrward to reading it; but I felt restless. I looked out the window at the beautifui, cloudless sky, and I closed my book firmly. It was entirely too nice outside to be reading inside!

_ In the back of my head was the usual Grandma precautions about exploring their large farm alone. Just last week, however, Grandpa had allowed -. to go with him into the barn. what could happen to me there? The barn was reasonabfe close to the house. Grandma could even look out her window upstairs if she wanted to.

I threw caution to the wind and decided to explore the giant old barn.

_ After I adjusted my eyes from the bright sunlight ouiside to the relatively gloomy interior of the barn, I immediately became-aware of Mabel, their main

source of milk. she gave me one sidelong glance while she continued to chew on her cud' Suddenly, she gave out a very loud "moo" which resounded in the upper emptiness ofthe great barn.

Almost at the same moment, the mare, Nellie Belle, joined Mabel in a pretty noisy neigh, both of which got through to me that I was not welcome to eoin the barn alone! Just as I had decided quickly that I would see the barn anothËr time - with Grandpa, I looked up at the door to find a menacing teenage boy blocking the door to prevent my leaving.

My heart leapt up into my throat! There stood the BULLY of the area who lived down near the covered bridge. Both ofmy grandparents had sternly warned me never to even go near him! His reputation was known far and wide as both a troublemaker and a real threat to innocent young girls.

"Get out of my way, Jeb!" I screamed.

Instead of moving away, he grabbed my ann in a vice_like grip with his strong, dirty hand. I was about to cry our for help when he clampeâ his other filthy hand over my mouth!

, I was at the point of passing out from sheer fright when I saw Grandma's bonnet appear around the corner ofthe barn!

"Jeb Rainey, take your grimy hands off my granddaughter! you have been warned to.stay offour property. This time you have gone too far! I am going to have SheriffWarner hunt you down. Release her immediately!"

.._ Jeb.reluctantly took his hand offmy mouth, and released my arm. He snarled" "I was just trying to have a little fun."
￼Kathryn Bush

I flew to Grandma and she put a protective arm around me. we both stood motionless until Jeb had reached the road. "There now, Sugar Babe. Don't be frightened." (She had never used Grandpa's endearing name to me before.) we'll gJott ,rp to tire house and have a few pieces of that chocolate fudge I made this iro-ing. It is for my Garden Club meeting tomorrow, but I made a little extra."

TalÈing loud en-ough for Jeb to hear from the roa4 Grandma warned him sternly, "Now, Jeb, I never want to see your evil face around here again! Now go." érandma was only four foot eleven in height, but her voice a she yelled at Ieb was six foot five; and he couldn't get out ofthere fast enough'

Grandma had such fire in her eyes that Jeb headed toward his miserable

shack down by the bridge without even tuming back. I saw his face as he left. It

was dark and menacing.

I clung to Grandma's hand as we walked quickly toward the house, also

without turning around.

60

￼CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

Horseshoes In Earnest

The twins heard from Austin that Grandpa had taught me to play horseshoes - his style! They challenged me to a game that afternoon. They had walked over for that express purpose.

I had been practicing for two days in my spare time, and I considered myself by now to be pretty good. I felt that I was a fine match for my cousins. We went out into the yard and I was to play Cary first. Mary encouraged him to play first because she wanted to observe my new style.

Sure enough, as Grandpa had predicted" I beat Cary easily. Mary walked up and said, "Now that I know how you throw, it won't be so easy to beat me!"

It was just as easy to beat Mary and she stalked offto the well, insisting she was very thirsty.

Cary sort of grinned to himself as he realized he was not the only one I could beat at horseshoes.

Cary and Mary had been playing horseshoes for two or three years, so they had naturally thought I'd be a pushover for them to win.

Mary wanted a rematch. Just as my tum came, I noticed Grandpa standing by the corner of the house. I couldn't miss the twinkle in his eyes as if he were spurring his newest pupil on. Grandpa loved to pitch horseshoes, and he was one ofthe best in the county.

I still had my horseshoe poised in the air when Cary became aware of Grandpa's presence. They could never excel at an)'thing when adults were watching. After I expertly got a ringer, Cary missed the mark when his tum came on the first throw.

"way to go, Sugar Babe!" Grandpa praised me.

My proud grin would have lit up an electric light bulb!

From the looks on my twin cousins'faces, no way were they going to let me

show them up in front ofGrandpa!

Cary got a leaner on his second throw.

Before my turn, I looked up at Grandma's resting room, and there she was

grinning from ear to ear! Could it be that she s betting on me to win? I'd heard the twins were pretty cocky about their horseshoe prowess, but now I had the advantage of being able to show offin front of adults.

I aimed with care, and I had another ringer fall in place. It knocked Cary's leaner flat and to the side.

Panic was beginning to show on the twins'faces as they realized how cool I was with adults around. Also, they had to grudgingly admit that I was getting
￼Kathryn Bush

pretty accurate.

"somehow that's not fair," Mary whined.

"Fair as rain," Grandpa said" coming to look more closely at such a feat. "Sugar Babe, you seem to have a natural talent for this game'" Grandpa

couldn't conceal his pleasure. "Don't get too cocky, though. Remember how Mary and Cary beat you in Monopoly last year." He winked at me.

Cary and Mary relaxed visibly and smiled at Grandpa for remembering they had soundly defeated me at Monopoly - one of the games at which they excelled. After all, Grandpa didn't have forty "Sugar Babes" for nothing! He could be

very diplomatic when he wanted to be. He truly did love us all, and was always bragging about what fine young citizens we would all be when we grew up. About this time, Grandma signaled Grandpa from the second story vantage point! She had spotted the evil Jeb walking boldly across the dirt road toward us children as we played horseshoes, He was just now getting the nerve to approach us. Obviously, he had not seen Grandpa!

Grandpa quietly slipped up behind Jeb and grabbed his arm firmly from behind. "Jeb, you were in no uncertain terms to stay offour property! Now I find you near my grandchildren. You get yourself back to that miserable shack of yours and never set foot even near our property again! Now go!" Grandpa was furious.

Jeb looked sullenly at Grandpa, but he had more sense that to talk back to him. He started reluctantly down the road toward the covered bridge.

All of us watched as Jeb walked down the road. Suddenly, we saw a police patrol car come over the hill. They stopped and forced Jeb inside. Then they headed back toward Commerce. Grandpa explained to us, "The police have been looking for Jeb for a long time; and now they are finally taking him to jail. Stalking young girls has not been his only crime, and he will be lucky if they do not lock him up indefinitely."

I said" "Even though I know what a terrible person Jeb is, I really hate to see anyone go to jail."

Grandma assured me, "Don't worry about Jeb. His crimes are so many, he needs to pay his debt to society - our society!"

I remembered and said reluctantly, "You're right."

Our horseshoe game had been interrupted by the Jeb incident. Somehow, we decided we'd continue our contest at another time.

Cary tried to say brightly, "The Scuppemongs are ripe now Let's go and eat a few"

Mary and I followed him to the vines that were on a large square trellis with the vines growing overhead, but not too high to reach, even for us kids. It was one of the joys of summer to eat the sweet grapes.

"I had forgotten how good these taste!" I said" pulling offa handful' "You and Mary are lucky to be able to eat these wonderful grapes an)'tlme you want to during the season. Sometimes, I think about how sweet they are, and I wish I could have them more often."

"I never thought we were lucky, but I guess we really are. I like the Muscadines, too, but they are not as sweet as these Scuppernongs. They are so different," said Mary.

62
￼FORTY GRAND

Cary said, "Mary remember Mama said for us to be home by five, so I guess we'd better go."

"Today has been fun," I said. "It's too bad Jeb had to ruin our horseshoe game. Maybe you could come back tomorrow. Do you think Aunt Marie will let you?"

"Considering that the Jeb incident spoiled our playing today, maybe she will," Cary said thoughttully.

"If we can, we'll be over after lunch," Mary added.

"Great," I said and bid them goodbye for now.

Suddenly Mary turned around. She had remembered that they had invited me

over to play Monopoly tomorrow "We'll have to postpone the rematch of horseshoes because we have already challenged you to play Monopoly. Remember?"

"I do now I'll be over therejust after lunch. See ya."

"We'll have the board all set up," Cary added.

"I'll be looking forward to it," I said. I hoped they would not detect the smug

look on my face. What they do not know is that for the last three nights aftei supper, Grandpa has been giving me some very fine pointers about Monopoly.

I watched as Cary and Mary skipped happily along the narrow road to their house. They had no thought or fear of meeting a snake along the way. I guessed it was because they lived on the farm, and could not constantly be in fear of snakes.

Later that afternoon, Grandma decided to teach me how to milk the cow. I had already had several unsuccessful tries at milking old Mabel, so I did not expect much. Grandma patiently showed me one more time; and I determined I'd learn. I squealed with delight when suddenly I succeeded in getting a spray of milk into the pail!

"Remember, you must never come in the barn alone. you know it isn't safe,,' Grandma warned after we'd finished with the milkins.

I didn't argue with Grandma as the terrifiing eiperience with Jeb was still fresh in my mind.

Grandma saw the look in my face. She cheerily said, ,.When you churn the butter tomorrow, you will be using the milk you just milked yourself. How about that?"

I brightened just a little. "Will it really be this milk?"

"You bet it will. You don't have much there, so I will just add that to the clabber I already have, stir it up, and it will be fine."

"Grandma, will they really put Jeb in jail? He has done some bad things, but - jail. That us so terrible."

"Sweetie, when a person cannot live the way other people live, and when they enjoy hurting other people, they should be put away somewhere so they can learn a better way of living."

"I guess you're right, and he did scare me a lot. Grandma, do - do you suppose at your Bible Study this week, you could mention the situation about Jeb?"

"I was planning to, Dear. This is a situation that has been on our minds for some time."

63
￼
￼CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

Her Buggy Can Fly

After we had eaten too much of Grandma's delicious fudge, she looked at me to see if I was calmed down. Satisfied, she decided instantly that we would go for some more supplies for her Garden Club meeting. Grandma said we would go to Maysville, as it was closer than Commerce. Grandma did not drive a car, so we'd have to hitch up Nellie Belle to the buggy.

On this visit, I had ridden on Nellie Belle bareback (under the careful watchful eye of Grandma) and I had been in the wagon pulled by the faithful Nellie Belle, but I had never been in a buggy. I was beginning to get all excited over our little trip. I assumed it would be a nice leisurely ride I had figured out this would take the place ofher rest today that was interrupted by Jeb.

I was soon to learn, to my utter amazement, that my four foot eleven inch Grandma was a speed demon with the reins in her hands! Her solemn face betrayed her excitement as we raced along! Nellie Belle had always appeared so docile, but I got a good look at her, and she was as reckless as Grandma!

My nerves were beginning to fray by the time we reached the little town. Grandma tethered the reins to a nearby pole, rather expertly, I might add, in a favorite spot in front ofthe store.

Once inside, Grandma casually mentioned, "Oh by the way, Katie, tomorrow in addition to my Garden Club that will be meeting at our house, it is to be combined with my Bible Study group."

I looked with interest at my Grandma, but thought to myself, "Please don't let their subject be Revelation!" (I shuddered.)

Grandma continued, "We will be studying the book of John, which is a favorite ofours."

"Who will be teaching that day?" I just meant to join in the conversation.

"Well, I am afraid it will be me. I was appointed to teach the whole book of John over a few months time. We have great discussions at the end of each chapter.

"To get on to the Garden Club part, everyone's petunias are at peak just now. We always give aprize or two to the best ones." Was that a smug look I saw cross Grandma's face? I was later to leam from several of the club members that Grandma usually won first prize for her petunias!

Grandma got back to the business at hand. "l will need a few things from this store. I've already made the fudge which we sampled." She gave me a quick searching look and we both shuddered - not at the fudge but at the recent memory it brought to mind.
￼Kathryn Bush

"I need to make something tasty using cheese. Can you give me any ideas?

I was flattered for her to ask me, so I said quickly, "While we are in the store, I'll think of something special. My Mother makes several cheese things for her circle that always disappear before us kids can get to them."

"Excellent," Grandma said pleased.

We managed to find all of the things we needed in the friendly little store, and we took our bags to the buggy. Nellie Belle was fidgeting impatiently, probably wondering what had taken us so long.

On the buggy ride home, I braced myselffor the Pony Express type speed we had experienced on the way to Maysville. To my surprise, it was a complete about face! Nellie Belle struck a comfortable gait, and we were actually able to chat leisurely about the meeting tomorrow.

We had just passed the fence post marking the beginning of "our" farm. Grandma suddenly pulled the buggy over to the right side ofthe road alongside a heavily loaded clump of blackberry bushes. She smiled brightly and said, "They are finally ripe!"

"What's ripe>" I asked with sudden interest.

"The blackberries. Would you hand me those two buckets behind you there?" At the prospect of eating fresh blackberries - whatever they were- I

scrambled around and found the baskets. I gave Grandma one and kept one for myself.

After I eagerly tasted one ofthe plump blackberries, I said, "This is good, but it tastes so different from Grandpa's Scuppernongs and Muscadines!"

Grandma explained patiently, "Well, they are of the grape family, and blackberries belong to the berry group. These make delicious jam and jelly though, and I'll have to do just that about Friday''

"Can I help?" I asked excitedly.

"I was counting on you," Grandma said with a contented look.

"Grandma, now that I think about it, haven't you sent some of this kind ofjelly to Daddy before? I believe I remember eating some really delicious jam made from blackberries. Is that right?"

"It certainly isl That is one ofmy specialties, and you certainly know that your mother puts up some fine fig preserves."

I grinned" "That is, if she can keep me from eating most of it. I really do love those fig preserves. Buck and I make it our special business each summer to keep the birds out ofthe two large fig trees."

'And how do you do that?"

"Well you see, we have this old air rifle and Daddy taught us to hit the limb just below the bird so that we can scare them out of the trees. Sometimes, we miss the limb and knock a bird or two out now and then, but that makes is feel bad. Most of the time, our aim is pretty good and we scare them away for a while.

66
￼CHAPTER NINETEEN

Glorious Petunias

Some people, perhaps with a tinge ofjealousy, have at times suspected that Grandma started her Garden Club just so that she could show off her prize petunias !

An important fact should be noted. When Grandpa built their very sturdy rather unique large farm house, he added a special feature for his wife. In the front yard, surrounding an already existing large tree, Grandpa designed and built a giant petunia "bed." It was about twelve feet in diameter, and at least two feet deep. The "deep" was filled with fine soil that would grow many plants, but Grandma chose petunias. I am sure Grandma masterminded how she wanted everything prepared to her own ideas. Then, when it was all finished" she ordered the seeds she had been planning for months. Grandpa also strongly suspected that starting a Garden Club to show off her petunias was part of Grandma's overall plans.

Spring finally arrived, and Grandma said proudly to Grandpa, "I have received and sorted all of the petunia seeds that I will need - and more - and now I am ready to plant all ofthem in the patterns that I have carefully designed. I want to have a glorious burst ofcolor every Spring!"

Grandpa smiled down at her, and he caught her enthusiasm. "I really outdid myself on the petunia bed, didn't I?" Everyone has been eager to know just how you'll plant only petunias in such a large bed."

"Let them observe a Master at work," Grandma quipped. She gathered up all of her seed packets, her trowel, her bonnet, and set out toward her anticipated project.

Grandpa looked up from working on his books from his building business often enough to check on his wife's progress. The determined look on her face assured him that she would be the talk of the countryside with her beautiful anticipated petunias!

With such fine soil and premium grade seeds, it wasn't long before Grandma's petunias began emerging in record numbers. Every moming, Grandma carefully followed the directions of watering, etc.

At long last, the burst of color that Grandma had envisioned became a lovely reality. She anxiously awaited Grandpa's arrival so that he could share her joy. "Why, Mattie, your petunia are gloriousl I've watched their daily progress,

but today they are beautiful!" Grandpa praised.

Grandma's beaming smile mirrored her pride and satisfaction of her

accomplishment. To herself, she thought, "Gertie Wilson will be green with
￼Kathryn Bush

envy!" She thought for a moment, "But her roses are still the talk ofthe county. Well, this will just give them something else to talk about."

Grandpa said mildly, "Now you can get on with your ides of starting a Garden Club."

"I already have." Grandma said smugly. "Our first meeting is next Tuesday - here at our house. That is the surprise I waited out here for. I wanted to wait until the petunias were in full bloom, and I got the meeting together last week. Nine of our county women are coming to our very first meeting."

"Well now, you are something else! I'm really proud of you. I'll be starting that two story house in Commerce on that day, so I will be out of the house."

"I counted on that," teased Grandma.

Grandpa shook his head slowly in wonderment at his usually almost shy wife who had accomplished all she had planned so carefully for. His smile was one of genuine pride.

68
￼CHAPTER TWENTY

Garden Club and Bible Studv

Years later when I was eleven, as I was to help at her meeting, Grandma patiently explained to me that for years her Garden Club met at one of the member's houses, on a rating basis. She said about three years ago, they decided to combine their Bible Study classes that were held bi-monthly with the Garden Club meetings, mostly as a matter of convenience for the majority of the members of both groups.

"It has become such a fine arrangement, that all of us are delighted with the results. For two years at east, the attendance at the Garden Club meetings has increased unbelievably. I sort of believe that women who belong to our Garden Club are coming to the Bible Study group when they might not have made an effort to go to a sepârate meeting. However, most of us feel the real reason the attendance has grown so is that after the Bible Study is over, we ask ifanyone has special problems they would like to discuss with our group. It has been so successful, even 1ve cannot believe that our women would air their concerns. The sensitive response is worth all any shyness any member might have felt beforehand. By the time our meetings are over, all of us feel better for having shared with each other prayerfully. It does help, believe me."

"Once in awhile our Pastor drops in, usually to enjoy the refreshments, and he proudly praises our combines efforts. He jokingly says that we allow him to play golf more often!"

"Cary is going to make sure that the horses and buggies are taken care of during our meetings. I promised Mary sometime ago that she could act as Hostess for this meeting in our home. Now, I want to ask you if you will do something important for me also." Grandma was solemn as she looked at me.

"I will do anything I can, Grandma," I said willingly.

"ester usually keeps my good china washed up for during our meetings, but she is in South Carolina this week visiting her sister. Could I depend on you to see that you keep my china washed during the meeting?"

I shot Grandma a look of disbelief, but I saw that she was very serious.

"But - - Grandma, don't you remember the oatmeal bowls?"

Grandma flashed me a very fine smile and said, "You were only nervous your

first meal here alone. lrealize now that you would never have done such a thing on purpose. After all. I trust you every morning with the fragile eggs you gather, and you do a greatjob ofthat!"

"Then I shall consider it a privilege to keep the china washed up. You may be sure that I will do a fine job," I said almost grateful that she trusted me with that exactins task.
￼Kathryn Bush

The food Grandma served at her Garden Club was outstanding. When I took a piece ofthe delicious fudge, I could not help cringing slightly at the thought of that terrible experience in the barn.

Mary came in about that time and brought the first of the dishes for me to wash. I put the unpleasant thoughts out of my mind.

As I washed some of the lovely old dishes. I looked out the kitchen window; and I saw Austin and Cary making sure the horses were cared for during Grandma's meeting. Most of the women came in buggies, but one women had come in a wagon with one horse. Then there was Mrs. Gertie Wilson, who had arrived ten minutes late just to show offher new Model T Ford.

Grandma turned to Gertie, "I've been very concerned about yow sister, Sophie. Is she feeling better now?"

A little surprised that Grandma even knew about her sister's illness, Gertie replied earnestly, "The stroke left her partially patalyzed" but the doctor feels she may fully recover. Thank you for asking."

"sophie is one of the ones we will be praying for in our Bible Study following this meeting. I hope you can stay and meet with us," Grandma said quietly.

"You can count on it!" Gertie said before thinking. She had planned to leave after the Garden Club meeting, as was her custom. She, however, would welcome the group's prayers for her dear sister.

Many of Grandma's friends smiled slightly at the feat Grandma had accomplished. None ofthem had ever been able to persuade Gertie to stay for their Bible Study.

The Garden Club meeting went according to their custom, and at last they came to the presenting awards for the finest petunias. The lady who had brought me her cup and saucer whispered to me, "There is never any contest on the best petunias - your Grandma always wins. Her petunias are superb!"

The smile I returned was with great pleasure and pride that Grandma usually won first pize, and then they presented Grandma with first prize for her petunias.

Gertie won second prize for her lovely roses. Gertie's face showed that, after Grandma's kindness, she really did not mind second place this year.

Even though Grandma took first or second place most years, it did not keep other Garden Club members from entering the contests.

The end result ofthe contests was colorful flowers, roses, petunias and other favorite flowers of the Garden Club members that dotted the countryside from Hurricane Shoals to Commerce. It was indeed worth all the effort that the members put forth!

A few people left after the meeting of the Garden Club, but most of the seventeen women rematned to share their problems and concerns with their sympathetic peers in the meeting that followed called the Bible meeting'

Almost to a woman, the members looked forward to sharing and receiving comfort from others.

It was a well known fact that Grandma had read the Bible through four times' There was no doubt in my mind that she accomplished this by reading the Bible while she was churning for her large family.

70
￼FORTY GRAND

Before Grandma's Bible meeting was wer that day, not only Gertie received, comfort, but a number of other friends were able to feel befter about their problems as well after they shared them with their friends.

It was a very fulfilling experience for me even at my young age; and it is one of the things that I remember most about the suûlmer when I was,eleven years old and visited my Grandparents'home alone.

7l
￼
￼CHAPTER TV/ENTY.ONE

She Cares

^ A,handsome buggy, pulled by a fine Kentucky horse, pulled up even with Grandma's petunia bed. Before getting out, the lady looked at the petunias and seemed to admire the blazing colors.

Quickly, however, the elegant lady with the stunning clothes, complete with gloves and a light parasol stepped from the buggy with a grace seldom seen in these parts.

It was two days after Grandma's Garden Club meeting.

Grandma came out of the house and graciously addressed her friend, "Evelyn, what a nice surprise! Do come in out of the heat and have something cool to drink." Grandma almost wished she had a bottle of fine wine to offer hei obviously distressed friend.

"Thank you' Mattie," was all she could utter at first. sitting in the relaxing atmosphere of Grandma's parlor, Evelyn began to relax just a little.

Grandma appeared momentarily with some fresh made lemonade. ..The ice is a treat because the ice man came yesterday on one of his weekly trips."

"You seem troubled, Evelyn. Is there anything I can do to help?',

"Otr, Mattie, just being in your lovely parlor helps!" Evelyn began breathlessly.

"I'm glad," Grandma said quietly. ',Take your time. I squeezed these lemons early this morning, so just sip and enjoy your drink, then you can tell me all about what's troubling you. A calm look at problems seems tô help a lot."

Evelyn sat for a few moments gathering her thoughts so that she could say them in just the right way. Failing, she blurted out, "He wants to leave us! After twenty-five years of marriage and two children, he just wants to thow it all away! Just because he is middle-aged, and has to worry about our future. He inherited his father's fortune, so that can't reallv be a problem."

"Oh no," she said quickly. "He just has -become disenchanted with his business and wants out. He recently admits to himself and me that our business is one his father chose and built. His own dreams had to try to blend in with the existing business. They never did" and I am afraid even at this late date he wants to go to Tahiti for ayear or so until he figures out how to make his own dreams come true. Isn't that crazy?"

".Perhaps, but I am beginning to get the idea he does not want to leave you or th.e children, he just wants to get out ofthe business that makes him so unhâppy."

"Is there another woman?" Grandma asked guardèdly.
￼Kathryn Bush

"l realize that is true, of course, but the last three months have been miserable for all of us."

Grandma said quietly, "I don't believe there is a professional or any other working man around that has not many times wanted to chuck it all and escape to some island somewhere."

"Do you really think so?" Evelyn raised her tear-soaked eyes from her dainty embroidered handkerchief."

"l'm sure of it!" Grandma confided shyly.

"Are you serious?" Evelyn asked incredulously. "You are the perfect couple who is admired by the whole Garden Club as examples for us to follow. Are you trying to tell me you had problems when you were my age?" She brightened considerably, and flashed her lovely smile.

..I am indeed telling you that once in a while any two individuals differ in their opinions. One thing Bud could never understand is why I have read the Bible ihrough four times. He thinks only one would have been quite an accomplishÀent. I tried patiently to explain to him, many times, that when I churn ànd when I have to rest upstairs after lunch, I really prefer to read the Scriptures to continue to learn how to conduct my life," Grandma said'

;Th.n you earnestly feel that reading the Bible every day helps you to share your problems and listen to those ofothers?" Evelyn asked earnestly.

- ".Yet I do. I don't always feel that I am wise enough to interpret everything I read. but I do find comfort in trying," Grandma said thoughtfully.

"What you are actually saying is that I should sit down with my husband and talk througl his problems as well as his dreams with him. Maybe we both would find some- comfàrt and strength if we face our troubles together," Evelyn said quietly.

..I definitely do. When we have committed our lives together, there is nothing

we can't sharè, if we prayerfully attempt to make things right, " Grandma

finished.

Evelyn stood up, and without saying another word, grasped Grandma's hand

and left, determined to get her life ad her husband's back on track - the same track they had chosen as bride and groom.

Grandma had succeeded once again in setting her friends'lives back on

course - at least she liked to think so.

Grandma walked out and waved goodbye to her friend, Evelyn' She paused a moment to admire once again the petunias that were her pride and joy'

74
￼CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO

Best Organ Pumper

I got all excited one morning when I saw Gladys get out ofher car. Perhaps if I coaxed her enough, she'd show me a little about playing Grandpa's organ. Grandpa was always tired by the time supper was over, and it relaxed him to play for us while we sang our favorite songs, Grandma had already told me on this visit that Gladys hadjust now reached the age when her legs were long enough to comfortably reach the pedals on the old foot pumped organ.

Gladys was now taking organ lessons, and she had to prevail upon Grandma's kindness to allow her to practice until she proved to her mother that she was serious about her lessons for them tojustifu spending the money to buy her a good used organ.

Grandpa had said I was the best organ pumper he'd ever seen, so I must get a head start on playing the organ.

Gladys spoke to me as she rushed past saying, "Katie, I'm glad I was able to see you today while I am here. I really did not have a chance to talk to the day I played the organ at Grandma's Garden Club meeting. How are Mickey and Buck? It seems strange to see you visit alone. Irene never comes during the summer anymore. I suppose she has a lot of activities to keep her time occupied."

I bristled at her insinuation that I could not handle visiting alone, but since I wanted her to show me more about playing the organ, I decided to show her my charming side.

"Gladys, their plans were already made when I suddenly decided to visit early this suûrmer. Irene has involved Mickey in her busy surnmer plans, and Buck will probably come later in the summer. In fact, I am thinking of extending my visit until the reunion. I am having a wonderful time; and Grandma is teaching me so many things I need to know to nrn my own house someday,' I said sweetly.

Gladys shot me a quick look to see if I was being sarcastic, but she was satisfied that I was merely stating the truth.

"I've heard from Grandma that you really enjoy churning."

"Oh yes," I said. "I have started reading my books like Grandma reads her Bible while I churn, and I have now become a person who truly enioys readins." Grandma was snapping beans for supper w'hen she heard me tdllGladys tË'at

I was thinking of extending my visit, and she smiled warmly at me.

"Indeed!" Gladys was taken by surprise. "What can a city girl like you find

to do on a farm for such a lone visit?"
￼Kathyn Bush

"Oh, I find plenty to do. In fact, there is just not enough time to do all I want to do!"

I glanced at Grandma, and she could contain her pleasure no longer. "Katie has become my right hand assistant this summer. She learns so fast; and I've been trying to teach her something about housekeeping and cooking. Why, she has already learned to cook Country Ham and Red Eye gravy! Katie and your Grandpa could survive on that meal!"

"I like Country Ham, too," Gladys admitted grudgingly, "but I have never know how to cook it. Mama is always in too much of a hurry to let me try."

Grandma looked surprised, but I said sweetly, "I'll teach you, Gladys. After all, you are being nice enough to give me pointers on how to play Grandpa's organ."

"Well, I never! Grandma, you never tried to teach any of the rest of us anything!" Gladys snapped before she regained her composwe.

"Now calm down, Sweetie. Your mother and the other mothers have enough time to spend with you; and they are constantly seeing that you leam the things you should know. Katie's mother, Ethel, is a very gifted church worker. She's always in demand to speak at ladies meetings, and she teaches a large adult Sunday School class. So - - you see, it's a mighty small thing for me to give Katie a few helpful suggestions about how to run a house. Katie likes things neat, so she has been doing quite well.

"Now, Gladys, Katie has been itching to learn enough about the organ so that she can practice when she's alone. Do you think you could give her a few basic chords?" Grandma could be charming alsol

Gladys, remembering her sarcastic accusations, readily agreed to help me'. After a few misguided chords on my part, I finally was producing a sort of music on the organ. I was so thrilled, I forgot I could not reach the pedals! I would not always have Gladys to pedal for me. But - I brightened - I would have Grandma! I'm sure she would take a few minutes each day before her rest time. After I finished my chores, of course. Speaking of the chores I performed each day, I was beginning to think of them, mostly, as things that I enjoyed doing. Not just because I was doing these daily tasks for Grandma, but sometimes I dreamed that I was doing the chores in a neat home I would be the commander of.

In a few minutes, Gladys decided she had paid her dues, so she quickly departed mumbling something about seeing us next week.

"Now, young lady, what is this unexpected news of your wanting to stay with us two more weeks?"

"I hope you won't mind, Grandma. It just sort of slipped out. I'm afraid Gladys brings out the worst in me. But - - I really do want to stay for two more weeks, if it is all right with you and Grandpa. I am having such a great time. Also, I am learning so many interesting things. I still like churning best. Also, I have developed a real love for reading while I chum."

"We were hoping that you'd want to stay a little longer." Grandma said, pleased more than she cared to show.

76
￼CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE

MMM - Cotton Candv

Grandma decide that she would spend a few days with a sick relative of hers who lived in Commerce. I stayed with Aunt Marie and her kids during the day; and Grandpa picked me up after he returned from work each evening.

On Friday, Grandpa walked over and got me (as that narrow little road was too treacherous even for him to tackle in his car.) He told me that he had brought Grandma home with him a few minutes before. He said my aunt was feeling much better and now able to take care ofherself.

I noticed a definite twinkle in Grandma's eye when she greeted me. Right away, she took my hand and led me into her room and directly to her suitcase. "She's brought me a present," I thought hopefully.

Grandma carefully opened her suitcase, and reached inside for the treat she had brought me. She almost had tears in her eyes when she saw with dismay that the cotton candy had completely been reduced to a few grains of sugarl

"lt was so pretty and very delicious," she wailed as she turned to me. "I had one ofthese yesterday, and I wanted to surprise you with this today. And now - - it has completely disappeared! In my wildest imagination, I never dreamed it would melt in my suitcase. I packed it ever so carefully. Please go get your Grandfather."

Grandpa smiled an indulgent smile at his usually mild-mannered wife and said, "Perhaps it is a good thing the candy melted. Now the three ofus can go tomorrow and enjoy the Camival so that I can get Katie some fresh cotton candy!"

"Do you really mean it, Grandpa?" I practically squealed with delight.

Grandma was not to be outdone with such generosity. She said sweetly, "You just might want to invite Mary and Cary to go with us. They don't get to town very often."

There was another excited squeal from my corner of the room. "Oh, Grandma, that would be wonderful!" I hugged them both fondly and added "lt won't be dark for a couple of hours. May I please go and invite them now? I'm so excited, I can't wait until morning." The snake lying in wait before did not cross my excited mind.

"I'll walk over with you," said Grandpa.

"Not without me, you won't!" teased Grandma. "I wouldn't miss seeing the twins' faces when you mention their going to the Carnival. Besides, it will be a refreshins walk over."
￼Kathryn Bush

Cary and Mary were waiting at the door when we arrived. This was an unexpected visit for the three of us as we seldom were able to go anywhere together, except church.

Mary was the first to speak, but not by much. "I can't believe itl" she said after I excitedly told her we wanted them to go with us to the Carnival in the morning. 'Are we really going to the Carnival? Morning can't come too soon for me!"

Cary nodded his head vigorously and quickly said, "I've wanted to go to that Carnival ever since I heard on the radio that it was coming this week! Just think what a great time we will have,"

Woody had just walked into the room, having heard the whole conversation. Her face mirrored her disappointment in not having been asked to go along. After a quick glance at Woody, Grandpa said smoothly, "Woody, would you go with us, too?"

Woody beamed her answer, "My woe-begone face got to you, huh?"

"IN spades!" Grandpa laughed heartily.

Grandpa said firmly, 'At 8:30 sharp tomorrow morning, we are pulling out.

Anyone coming late will be teft behind!" Since he was known for his punctuality, no one doubted his words.

Grandma smiled impishly and adde4 "The sooner we get there, the more fun we will have. The cotton candy is excellent this year." She turned to wink at me..

The twins and Woody looked at Grandma in bewilderment, as they marveled at how she knew that.

Grandpa and I knew that another cousin had taken Grandma by the Carnival to buy the cotton candy for me. We chuckled to ourselves at the awed expressions on the faces of the three facing us. After a long, satisffing moment, we explained.

Three excited faces led us to the door. We said our goodbyes and walked a little faster toward home. Hunger was setting in as we had missed having supper. On such occasions, Grandma usually cooked Country Ham, Red Eye grary and grits. Grandpa and I smiled expectantly at the prospect of our favorite meal.

Grandma did not disappoint us.

Later in the evening, when I was comfortably settled in my pallet upstairs, I

thought about the Carnival tomorrow moming. It would be so much fun, especially with my cousins coming along. Then a thought hit me and I almost cringed. We would have to be riding with Grandpa in his "Flying Machine'" Surely he would go more slowly with Grandma in the car. I smiled to myself as I remembered Grandma's "Pony Express" ride to Maysville in her buggy!

None of the fears of speed bothered me for long as I went to sleep dreaming of a Camival that sold cotton candy!

78
￼CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR

Grandpa's Flying Machine

Grandpa's Ford Touring car, I forgot what year, was known far and wide as a car that he ways "flew" along at top speed over the narroq winding dirt roads between Commerce and his home. Anltime anyone saw a constant stream of dust appearing in the distance, they instinctively knew it had to be Grandpa, and they gave him a wide berth.

All of us thought Grandpa would have made a fine airplane pilot with his love ofa speeding vehicle.

One day, Grandpa said to me, "Sugar Babe, Grandma needs more ice for making her homemade ice cream tonight. Would you like to ride into town with me? We'll be back before you know it."

I should have taken that as the key to Grandpa's speeding pace, but I would have gone with Grandpa to the moon, if he had asked me. Too late, I remembered last summer when I had been so frightened riding with Grandpa. I swallowed hard and got in beside him in the passenger seat up front. After all, I reasoned to myself, I was a year older now and should be able to take speed without fear.

As we raced along the dirt road, Grandpa looked over at me and grinned. "Sugar Babe, you are still afraid, I can tell, to be riding with me, but there seems to be a little difference. You still aren't crazy about my speeding along, but I notice you don't mind it as much as last summer."

I grinned bravely and said, "Maybe I'm beginning to take after you!"

That pleased Grandpa a lot..

It was not long before we reached the ice house in Commerce. Grandpa

picked out the size we would need and Jake loaned him a container to keep the ice in until we reached Grandma so that it would not melt.

On the way back, Grandpa seemed to slow his breakneck speed. I suspected that it was because he wanted to talk.

As we rounded a curve in the road, I shouted" "Grandpa, look outl There is a big hole in the road!"

Even at the slower speed, I was afraid he might not see the large hole. Skillfully, I had to admit, Grandpa missed the hole just in the nick of time.

"You thought that ole hole had me, huh? It appears every time it rains hard. I've been dodging it for years. They keep filling it up, dirt roads don't take to repairs very well."

"You could have fooled me! I could just see you busting a tire - or worse!"

"I know every inch ofthis old road. Heaven knows, I've traveled it enough. Most of my building business is in Commerce; so twice a day, I'm dodging small
￼Kathryt Bush

rocks, or holes in the road. They keep promisiug me it will be paved soon, but it hasn't happened yet." Grandpa said with a slight frown on his face.

"You really love your building business, don't you, Grandpa? Your own house is so pretty and sturdy. kene told me that you practically built your house with your own two hands."

There was a great deal of pride in Grandpa's smile as he said, "I guess I had hoped it would last forever, and who knows, it justmight!"

I looked and saw that Grandpa was turning into the driveway oftheir house. After he skillflrlly missed that big hole, I could almost forgive his speed. He really was a fine driver - just fast!

80
￼CHAPTER TV/ENTY-FIVE

Meeting At The Well

I had just returned a book to Grandpa's library when I heard Grandma muttering, "With forty grandchildren you'd think one of the boys would be around when I need him."

"I'm not a boy, but can I help?" I quickly said.

Grandma looked up a little embarrassed she'd been talking aloud to herself. The water in the storage tank of the stove has cooled off - and is not enough, anylvay, and I want to take a bath and relax for a while in my tub. I had to gather some vegetables from the garden while you were churning, and I had my mind set on relaxing for a few minutes."

Around the comer of the house, a cousin named Paul appeared. He said, "Mama knew you did not raise squash this year, so she wanted me to bring you this basket full. We had so many ripen at the same time. Hey, Grandma, let me draw that water for you! How many buckets do you need?"

"Five would be wonderful. I'll have to fire up the stove to get the water hot enough for my bath. Just pour the water into the storage tank ofthe stove, please. Paul, since you are sop nice to do the water for me,just stick around for awhile and I'll make some fudge. After all, the stove will still be hot.

Paul was so fond of Grandma's fudge, he would have stayed around all night, if necessary. He said eagerly, "Will five buckets be enough? Do you have any of those Japanese walnuts stored in your pantry? I really love those!"

'As a matter of fact, just the other day I ran across a container of those walnuts. That's a fine idea.'Grandma was pleased.

My smile was getting wider all the time. I didn't have to lug the healy water, and I'd still get to share in the fudge - with my favorite walnuts built in!

The thought crossed my mind of the fudge Grandma had made earlier in my visit when she gave me some to help me forget the scary incident in the barn. I quickly put that out of my mind. After all, soon after, Grandpa had taken me in his car to get ice at Commerce. His fast driving made me uneasy, but it was always fun to be with Grandpa.
￼Like Grondmo's wild ride to Moysville!
￼CHAPTER TWENY.SX

Swimming Hole

One afternoon, very hot and humid, Cary and Mary came over to invite me to go with them down to the creek. They wanted to try to build a swimming hole by damming up the creek in the pasture.

"Grandpa has been promising us He'd dam up the creek so we can have fun swimming and trying to keep cool," Mary said.

"Yeah," Cary said, "and he has been too busy this summer. He just hasn't had time. Go get your swimsuit, Katie, and we'll do the job ourselves."

"l can't go without asking Grandma; and she's taking her nap."

"She won't mind. She said before you came that she wished Grandpa would hurry up and build the dam so we could cool off. It has been so hot so soon this year," Mary finished.

"Well - - I guess maybe she won't mind this once," I said hesitantly. I hurried to put on my swimsuit. It was a hand-me-down from Mickey, but it was cute enough.

The next few minutes found us locating assorted sizes of stones to use to dam up the small creek. We also gathered some sticks and began to use the clay mud generously to be sure the water couldn't seep through.

We worked very hard for what seemed like a long time. Finally, we stood back to admire our work. Just as were ready to plunge in and cool off, Cary shouted, "Don't move! That mean old bull, Oscar, is standing just above us on the small cliff. He looks puzzled as to what we are doing to his favorite watering hole!"

Mary quickly said, "While he is puzzled, let's get out of here!"

Moving swiftly but carefully, we managed to head toward the barn at top speed!

I looked back, and the great bull had lowered his head and was enjoying his even larger water hole. "He's drinking our swimming water!" I cried.

I turned my attention to catching up with the other two. We climbed over the fence in record time and, with our last spurt of energy, flung ourselves on the grass alongside the barn.

"Did you catch that look on Oscar's face as he was coming down the hill? He almost seemed pleased and thought we'd done all that work to build him a bigger watering hole!" Mary said, and we all laughed so hard we hurt.

Soon our laughter turned to concern as we saw the look on Grandma's face as she came swiftly down the path toward us!
￼
￼CHAPTER TWENTY.SEVEN

No School - No Plav!

Grandma and I were relaxing on the porch swing. Suddenly she said, remembering, "Katie, it was so unlike you to pull such a trick (it wasn't easy for her to forgive me and the twins for going into the pasture by ourselves, but she had made a great effort!), but do you remember when you were in the second grade, you wanted to stay home from school one day? You wanted to play with the Tinker Toys Buck had gotten for Christmas? So much so that you pretended you were sick?"

"Do I everl May I tell this story?" I asked eagerly.

"Please do!" Grandma settled back to listen.

"Well, I had a half finished project on Buck's Tinker Toy set. I figured I

couldn't wait until after school to finish it. I'd never played hooky before, but I knew I was ahead in school. so my enthusiasm overcame my consiience!

"When Mama came to wake us up for breakfast, I looked real pitiful and told her I had a sore throat. "May I stay home today, Mama? My throat really hurtsl,' "Having given Mama no cause to doubt my word before, she came over and looked dutifully at my exaggerated open mouth - much wider than necessary." "There is no redness, Mama stated. Probably too early to tel1. Just stay in bed and cover up good. I'11 bring your breakfast to you in bed on a tray after the

others have gone!"

"Yes, Mama," I said meekly - already feeling a little guilty. I heard my

brothers and sisters leave the house. I looked out the window and saw my friends and other children talking together as they walked to school. There went another pang to my conscience! I always enjoyed being with my friends as we walked and made our plans for after school. I wondered if there would be any message for me in the old tree with the convenient hole about our height. We all stopped on the way home from school to see who got the message that day.

'After the last kids disappeared I hopped eagerly out of bed" and continued my TinkerToy project! Everything was going great until I heard a light tap on my door. Before I could jump back into bed, my mother walked into the room carrying a hay with my hot oatmeal and toast!"

"You are not sick!" Mama cried. "You may as well be, because you are going to get back in bed; and you will stay there the entire day. Also, you do not deserve a hot breakfast. You may have the piece of toast; and I will eat the oatmeal as I have not eaten yet! You need to be taught a valuable lesson, young lady! Now just hop back into bed. There will be no reading either. you will spend the entire day thinking about this thoughtless trick you have pulled. You may be
￼Kathryn Bush

certain you will never be tempted to try such a sfunt again," Mama was really angry.

"I cringed and crept deep under my covers. I almost wished I were sick, as I had never heard Mama lash out at me so before!

*My Tinker Toy project was completed by Buck later in the day. I actually asked him to as I now had lost all desire to finish it.

"I indeed never pulled such a trick again!"

Grandma was all set to laugh heartily at my story as usual, but when she saw the look on my face, she just smiled sympathetically and realized this story no longer brought me pleasure - it brought a tinge of remorse for my one day of playing hooky.

86
￼CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT

Invention Stolen

At breakfast one morning, Grandpa told us about one ofhis latest inventions he had just completed in his small workshop at the foot of the hill behind their home. He was all excited because it was something that could revolutionize a segment of the farm equipment industry.

After we finished eating, the three of us - Grandpa, Grandma and I - walked down to his shop. Grandpa demonstrated his not too complicated but vital invention to us. It was marvelous and Grandma and I got all excited with him. The possibilities for marketing such a product were tremendous. Grandma and I were amazed at the simplicity of his new idea and wondered what took him so long to figure this one out.

Grandpa was quite an inventor. Over the years, he had invented some rather important things - mostly concerning ways to improve farm equipment. He always felt there were better ways to do farm chores more efficiently.

While we were still standing there admiring Grandpa's handiwork, the door swung open and a farm equipment salesman appeared. He took one long, sweeping look at Grandpa's invention. He would later remember all the important details.

The salesman clumsily said to Grandpa, "I don't have anything new to show you today. I just stopped by on my way to Maysville."

Grandpa noticed the man had taken in all the details of his new machine, but. being a very honest man himself, he brushed aside any suspicions about the salesman. "Burt, come on down to the house and have a glass of iced tea before you go."

Burt squirmed a little and managed to say, "Thanks, Bud, but I have another call to make before dark. I just wanted you to know that I stopped by on my regular schedule." He quickly disappeared into his car nearby.

Grandma said uneasily, "Bud" did you notice how he stared at your new invention? It was almost as if he were memorizing each detail."

Grandpa answered, trying to convince himself as well as her. "Nonsense. Burt is a good man. Besides, he is not an inventor!"

"Maybe not, but you'd better get to that Patent Office the first thing tomorrow morning. I just don't trust the look on Burt's face, and he left so quickly." Grandma was genuinely worried.

"Now, Mattie, I can't possibly have time to get to the Patent Office before Friday, so let's put that worry out of our minds. Why don't I play the organ and let's sing for a while."
￼Kathryn Bush

"That sounds good to me," I said, but Grandma still did not cheer up.

When Grandpa showed up at the Patent Office on Friday morning early, as he had promised us, he received a shock even he had trouble accepting' He presented his invention plans to his frien{ Gerald, but was told that two days before, a man had come in with an invention just like it, and they had issued a patent to him.

"Gerry was it a farm equipment salesman named Burt?" Grandpa asked hesitantly, as he had considered Burt an old friend.

"Hold on a minute, Bud, and let me think. Why yes, I believe that was his name. Do you know him?"

"I thought I did. I guess Mattie was right. I am entirely too trusting, and this time, it backfired on me!"

"Next time, Bud, please bring your invention ideas in right away. You are a fine builder, but you are also a fine inventor. That Burt character looked like he couldn't even find his own driveway," Gerald said gently.

Grandpa thanked Gerald and sadly left the office. His heart was healy to think that a man would stoop so low as to steal his invention right from under his very eyes. It was the best one he'd ever invented, and would have brought in a lot of money. ln the future, he would have to make sure he applied for his patents immediately to protect his interests. If only the salesman had knocked before entering, he could have quickly put a tarp over the machine.

When Grandpa returned home, he looked so dejected" we felt very sorry for him.

I said, "Grandpa, let's go sing. When you play the organ, that always cheers you up!"

Grandpa gave me a half crooked smile and said, 'All right, Sugar Babe. But it may take a lot of singing to cheer me up this time."

Pretty soon, Grandma joined us at the organ, and, for a long time, we sang almost all the songs we knew.

It wasn't too long before Grandpa said "l feel better now. I must learn not to be so trusting of people. It was such a simple invention. That's why Burt was able to reproduce it so quickly. Next time, I'll be waiting at the door when the Patent Office opens just as soon as I finish an invention."

"That's the spirit" Grandma agreed, happy that he had accepted not only the loss of the invention but the possible money it would have brought in.

88
￼CHAPTER TV/ENTY-NINE

Thinking About Charlie

After Grandpa resigned himself that not every man was an honest and upright as he was, he smiled his crooked smile behind his bushy white mustache. Grandma and I knew that he was thinking of something in the past that was pleasant to him.

"Back when your Mama and Daddy were first married, we invited them to live with us for a while until they could afford a place of their own. charlie was a bright young man, but going into my building business with such a new father- in-law did not appeal to him. Also, farming was not his thing either. For the first few days, he hung around my workshop, just looking things over hoping he could find something to do that did appeal to him.

"One day, Charlie repaired one of the farm machines. He found it so easy for him that he pretty soon repaired everything in sight!"

"Now, wait a minute, I'm getting ahead of myself. Let's go back a little further. Your Mother's fifteenth birthday proved to be quite exciting! She and Charlie eloped. She wore two changes ofclothes so that no one would suspect anything as she was not carrying a suitcase. Her brothers figured out the plot anyway, and gave them hot pursuit in buggies to the minister's house. They must have called a truce with her brothers because they were indeed married that night, with the brothers as witnesses.

'After the initial shock of the elopement and because Ethel was so young, we relented and invited them to live with us for a while.

"Ethel had become a marvelous cook, and did not mind cooking for such a large crowd. For many years, we had been eating her delicious cooking, and now it appeared we would not have to give that up just yet.

Grandpa's eyes twinkled with pride as he spoke of his youngest and probably favorite daughter.

"Now I can take up again where Charlie was repairing the farm equipment with a great deal of natural skill. Charlie said to me, "Maybe I can repair other farmer's machinery too."

"One hot summer day, Charlie was wiping the perspiration from his brow when he saw my car slowly approaching the house. He well knew my only speed was fast, so he walked down into the yard to see what was wrong.

"Charlie, you can fix everything else - do you suppose you can see what's wrong with my car?"
￼Kathryn Bush

Charlie grinned and said, after looking, "It's the fuel pump, Dad! I believe I

can take it off, clean it real well, and when I put it back on, it should be good as

new."

He proceeded to do just that, and after a short time, he installed the fuel

pump expertly, Grandpa beamed.

"Start it up, dad and lets see if it works."

"I was amazed when I stepped on the starter that my car ran just like a topl" "Darn, Charlie, you really are amazing! You married too soon to go to

college, but in these hard times, you've hit on a career you are really good at! I'm proud ofyou, Son!" I just couldn't say enough good things about the way he was using his natural talent to create a vocation for himself.

"Other friends and relatives of Charlie's did indeed go to college; but never did a young man enjoy his career as much as Charlie! He became a Master Mechanic. Another thing, he loved people; and in his business, he was able to satisfy their mechanical needs, as well as enjoying them as friends' He was such an expert, repeat customers were a way of life with him.

"Most importantly, during this Great Depression, Charlie is able to keep you all fed and clothed. His business is always good because during the hard times, no one can buy a new car and he helps to keep their old ones running."

We looked at Grandpa's face and on it we observed the kindest expression we had ever seen. Grandpa indeed loves each and every one ofthis large family.

90
￼CHAPTER THIRTY

At Least I Can Walk

It wasjust after I had finished churning one morning and I had gathered the eggs that I went into the kitchen to find Grandma putting on her prettiest bonnet. "Go get ready, Katie. I have decided to take you with me into Commerce to

see the house where you were born. I also need to buy some thread and buttons that were not at the little store in Maysville."

"That's great!" I replied. "It has been a long time since my parents took us there. Irene and Mickey have told me many times that I won a baby contest when I was eighteen months old. Will I see that place, too?"

"Yes, we will. It was only a month after you won that contest that you were stricken with Polio."

"But, Grandma - - I didn't have Polio! Mama said I slipped and fell on the slick floor when the maid was mopping in the kitchen. Mama said one foot went one way and the other - -"

Grandma quickly interrupted me. "That is just not true, Katie! your mother just couldn't face your having Polio. Back in those days, it was considered a stigma," Grandma said kindly. "Your mother was just trying to protect you. you were such a pretty little thing; and she felt so terrible that you were not going to be able to walk for a while - I believe it was actually six months. She and Charlie took you to every doctor in the county, trying to see ifone ofthem could perform a miracle and make you walk."

"During that six months, Irene and Curtis were your legs and they carried you tirelessly almost everywhere you wanted to go. They didn't even complain too much as, even at theù young ages, they realized it could have been their lot to have the Polio instead ofyou! You were a slender child, however, and not much weight for them to carry."

"tell me, Grandma, why didnl Mama and Daddy tell me that I had polio rather than making me believe that ridiculous story about falling on the kitchen floor?"

"I honestly believe that they did intend to tell you lateq but time passed and it seemed easier just to let the story about the fall stand. I personally thought Ethel made a grave error by not telling you!"

"I always felt that I had more problems with my weak ankles than a mere fall could cause," I said, trying not to be bitter.

"There were many times when I told you that your walking was a habit," Grandma admitted. "I made you feel that with determination, you could walk normally," Grandma added sadly.
￼Kathryn Bush

"How well I remember those remarks!! I felt you should have understood I could not help the weakness in my ankles; even though at that time, I was told it was from the fall. I had enough grit that I tried to walk normally' Grandma, I'm afraid that I really resented your nagging me about my walking!" (I tried hard not to show my anger now.)

"I was always well aware of your feelings each time I nagged you, but, in my heart, I thought that if I brought your walking to your attention often enough, you'd make the effort to overcome yow problem.

"Then, one day when I went to Commerce, I ran across your family doctor; and he assured me that no amount of determination on your part would help' He said your ankles would always be weak to a certain extent' He expressed the hope that someday there would be operations developed to completely alleviate the weakness in both ankles. That gave me hope; and I immediately stopped criticizing the way you walked,' Grandma said sincerely.

Grandma looked at me searching somehow for my forgiveness. With some misgivings because I had resented her criticism for so long, I broke into a genuine smile and told Grandma, "Now that I understand I really had Polio, I àppreciate your concern for me. You were only trying to make up for the fact that my parents had failed to tell me the truth about my actually having that dread disease, Polio. By the time I am grown, there is bound to be a doctor who can straighten out the weakness in my ankles."

Grandma said with affection, "I know they will, and you will be able to wear high heels and dance into the night with your favorite beau."

I smiled at Grandma's use of the word "beau," but I hoped with all my heart that she was right.

"I'll have to give your parents credit for trying to get you well, though. They took you to every doctor they heard ofthat had worked with Polio patients, but most ofthem had never seen a case as slight as yours; and theyjust did not know how to start treating you." Grandma still looked a little concerned'

'At his work, one day, your Daddy heard of a doctor in Gainesville, Georgia, who had met with limited success with young children who had slight cases of Polio such as yours. The doctor said he had enabled three children to walk again'

"That was good enough for your parents. They couldn't wait to have that doctor examine you." Grandma had my complete attention now

"Was that the doctor who helped me walk again?" I asked earnestly.

"He was indeed. However, there was a problem after he examined you. He definitely felt he could help you to walk again, but he would have to treat you three times a week for several months." Grandma explained.

"But Daddy couldn't get off work that often to drive us to Gainesville," I

said.

"Exactly, but your Daddy loved you very much' He told the doctor to set up

the schedule of appointments you needed, and within ten days, he could move your family to Gainesville. Charlie explained that he could get a job in Gainesville very quickly. He said a man there had offered him a better paying job just last month, and had been calling him weekly to see if he would come' Charlie felt his present employer would understand.

"So - - in less than two weeks, your family moved; and you were able to get the treatments on a rezular basis."

92
￼FORTY GRAND

"Is Polio the reason my ankle are still a little weak?" I asked shyly.

"Yes but that intelligent head you have on your shoulders will more than make up for any slight weakness in your ankles. So what if you can't wear high heels too often?" Grandma looked at me with a great deal of genuine affection.

"You know, Grandma, when I am grown, I will try very hard to find a surgeon to fix me up. Then I can walk gracefully, dance, and - - everything."

"That's the spiritl Now run along and get ready for our little trip into the big city."

In short time, I was back neatly dressed and my hair brushed especially nice.

Even a fast buggy ride is much slower than riding in Grandpa's "Flying Machine." As we approached the covered bridge, I had no fear. I had been through that quaint old bridge so many times, I rather enjoyed racing through at Nellie Belle's top speed. I wasn't sure whether I was developing a real love for speeding vehicles, or I was just getting used to them.

Grandma said suddenly, as she reigned Nellie Belle to a slow trot. "I want us to stop for a few minutes when we get to Hurricane Shoals. I never fail to get an awesome thrill out of watching that beautiful water."

"Even though I just saw them recently, with Grandpa, I can't wait to see the Shoals again, Grandma. Has anyone ever written a history of Hurricane Shoals?" "Not a complete one - that I have ever read, but someone should as the

history is quite fascinating, so far as I have been able to read. It is said that the Indians were in awe of the moving waters, and they had many names for them." Grandma showed a keen interest in the Shoals. "Who knows, maybe someday you will be the writer to set down the real history of these awesome Shoals," Grandma said.

"Perhaps when I am a famous writer, I'll do the necessary research and make Hurricane Shoals one of my best works," I said dreamily.

"Yow imagination just might prompt you to want to write such a history. I'll look forward to reading it!" Grandma said with genuine fondness.

It was later that afternoon that I gathered all the facts I could about Hurricane Shoals and wrote my first important essay. I proudly handed the effort to Grandma while she was preparing dinner.

Grandma's eyes lit up and she read my essay then and there. After she finished she called Grandpa in and read my piece aloud to him. She was so proud.

'Our Hurricane Shoals'

"The Indians before us discovered in awe the beautiful,

fascinating waters of Hurricane Shoals. They had many names for this awesome sight - their favorite of which was "Tumbling Waters." Just imagine how they must have stood for a long time after heavy rains just observing the white water formed as the increased water rushed over the vast expanse of granite.

"Today, we have the same opporrunif to focus our cameras and record for later pleasurable viewing the majesty and greatness of Hurricane Shoals' natural beauty and splendor.

93
￼Kathryn Bush

"Throughout the South, many states claim to have similar shoals, but we who are born nearby consider these as belonging to us. Our forefathers enjoyed the same changing splendor of Hurrioane Shoals, depending at any given time on the recent amount of rains in the area,

"Nature in all its glory is always quietly waiting at Hurricane Shoals. It is waiting to be observed by those who seek a quiet remembrance ofour heritage, pas! present and future.

ByA. Ifutlryn Nunn June27.1936

After Grandma finished wiping a proud tear ftom her eyes, Grandpa said softly, "I'11 have to move some of those old books over in my library someday to make rpom for this tale.nted youqg writer's works."

The widest smile I could manage was beaming on my face!

94
￼CHAPTER THIRTY.ONE

Now I Understand Why Grandma Kept Nagging Me

Earlier in the day, Grandma had revealed the truth to me about my having had Polio when I was eighteen months old. I almost shivered when I remembered how adamant Grandma had been in her criticism of my mother allowing me to believe my six months' paralysis had been because of my falling on a soapy kitchen floor the maid was mopping!

I had mixed emotions that night while lying on my pallet upstairs before falling asleep. Why had my own mother deceived me all my life by sticking so rigidly to the above story? Was she just trying to spare my feelings or - - was she actually ashamed of the fact that I'd had Polio?

I knew without a doubt that my mother loved me very much. She had always protected me from and criticism about my slightly different way of walking.

As to my Grandmother, my eleven year old logic was beginning to fathom why she had always wanted me to walk with a more normal gait. She resented almost desperately that my mother had never told me the truth!

I stared at the ceiling ofthe dark room and came to a profound conclusion. I would have to forgive both my mother and my grandmother. After all, my Polio was slight and I even fooled some people because of my efforts to walk well. I could have had a much more severe case.

I decided then and there that I would strive even harder to live a normal life in spite of weak ankles!
￼ô LD fr$tûJJCP eHUar
￼CHAPTER THIRTY.TV/O

Trees That Flourish

After a fine day at my grandparents' church, we returned to their home. Grandma made ham sandwiches and she insisted we also eat the vegetables left over from last night. She was not one to waste food, and we didn't complain too much because they tasted even better today. After lunch, she served us her delicious cherry pie,

As soon as the dishes were washed and put away, Grandma said "I'm going upstairs for a while to rest."

Virginia Slims had not even been heard of at that time, but I had heard rumors that Grandma occasionally smoked a small corncob pipe. I always suspected that not all of her time was spent reading the Bible through four times. Or - - perhaps she smoked her little pipe while she read!

Most of the men Grandpa was acquainted with at times were known to chew tobacco. Grandpa was sometimes known to indulge in this not too great habit while driving his car to and from his building business in Commerce. My sister, Irene, can attest to the fact that it is not wise to sit behind Grandpa while he is flying along his chosen dirt roads!

After Grandma had climbed the stairs to rest for a couple of hours, Grandpa turned to me and said, "Sugar Babe, would you like to go with me to inspect the orchard and the nut trees?"

Grandpa called each one of his forty grandchildren "Sugar Babe." The amazing part was that it made each of us feel special. Grandpa continued" "I like to walk through the trees. It gives me a chance to clear up any broken limbs and just make sure they are all healthy.

As soon as we walked along chatting easily, Grandpa said that before Grandma's health became a little problem, she used to walk with him through these same trees. He told me how they used to discuss each tree almost separately, remembering just when each was planted, and how much they had grown and prospered through the years. He told me of the three Japanese Walnut trees. "I brought them home one day, and they were the puniest things and so straggly that your Grandma laughed and said, "No way would they ever amount to anything!"

"Now, Mattie," I said, "with some extra loving care, they will grow to be fine trees, bearing proudly the nuts that come out whole - almost every time."

She scoffed at my enthusiasm, and predicted that they would die before the summer was over.
￼Kathryn Bush

We had reached the Japanese Walnut trees by this time, and Grandpa proudly showed me that they were the tallest, healthiest trees of all - towering over the others. Grandpa said, "Your Grandma has come to love these nuts. Next to our papershell pecans, they are her favorites. Woody has said she prefers them over any ofthe others."

"Grandma makes those delicious Pecan Pralines with those papershell pecans, doesn't she? Do you suppose she will make some while I am here?" I asked enthusiastically.

'As a matter of fact, she mentioned to me that she plans to make a batch of that candy on Friday. She found enough in herpantry. I love the Pralines as much as anyone. Hers are so creamy, and not a bit sugary as some are. We have that to look forward to. But don't mention that to Grandma. Now that I think about it, it is to be a surprise for you."

"I won't say a word, "I grinned happily, looking forward to one of my very favorite treats.

With the exception of a few small branches that had blown off the pecan trees during a thunderstorm the week before I arrived everything was neatly in order, as far as trees go.

After seeing even the few branches, I asked Grandpa, with a little apprehension in my voice, "Are the thunderstorms around here as severe as the ones we have had at home this year?" I didn't even want to think about the storms I had been through.

"Some are eye-openers, all right, but with the number of lightening rods I have on our house, we feel safe enough." His voice was light, but he gave me a look that showed his concem for my recent experience in Gainesville.

"Your mother used to occasionally walk through our tees with me. I believe she knew just when the cherries would be ripe because she always enjoyed picking enough for Grandma to make a pie for supper." Grandpa smiled wistfully as he spoke of his favorite daughter.

Grandpa kept on talking about my mother as if he enjoyed recalling her childhood. "It wasn't so very long before your mother leamed to make those delicious cherry pies herself- among other things. She was a born cook. From the time she stood on a stool when she was nine to make biscuits, her love and fascination with cooking increased almost weekly. I remember one week, when she was thirteen years old, she prepared some ofthe most delicious fried chicken I had ever tasted. I raved over it to your Grandma, thinking she had cooked it. Later, Mattie told me that Ethel had cooked most of that meal. "Why didn't she tell me so that I could brag on her efforts?'I had said,"

"Grandma explained Ethel was biding her time until she cooked a whole meal, including dessert, before she let us know she was the one who had been preparing those wonderful meals."

"Did you brag on her when she admitted she was the one who cooked so well?" I asked.

"Oh my, yes!" Grandpa smiled. 'All of us, especially your Grandma praised her so highly that she added new dishes weekly so that our meals would be very special," Grandpa finished softly.

"Do you think that Mama can teach me to cook well? I really would like to know how to cook fried chicken and milk graly like hers." I was eager to know.

98
￼FORTY GRAND

"She'll teach you - in due time," Grandpa promised. "Well now can you believe that our walk is over already; and we are back beside Grandma's beautiful petunias?" He finished proudly.

99
￼
￼CHAPTER THIRTY-THREE

Love Was Her Main Ingredient

Grandma and I were in her vegetable garden busily picking green beans when she suddenly broke into merry laughter.

"What is it?" I asked curious that she should laugh so while we were gathering beans.

"Many times when I pick green beans, I am reminded of the time your mother tried cooking her first batch ofthese beans."

"How old was she?" I interrupted.

"Just about your age. She had been standing on a stool since she was nine to make biscuits, so she figured she was just about ready to tackle cooking the vegetables as well. I told you earlier my health was bad back then so my three girls had to do their part to keep the family going. Anyway, Ethel picked enough beans to feed an army. She snapped them according to how she had observed me doing, but she forgot one important detail. She forgot that the beans had to be "strung" before they could be snapped. As a result, even though the beans had a wonderful flavor, everyone ended up with stringy beans as they tried to eat them. Ethel was so embarrassed over her error, that she vowed the next beans she cooked would be perfect - and they were. Sometimes, I believe that that frustrating experience made Ethel learn to cook well at an early age; and she learned to love to cook. Charlie was a lucky man to marry a young lady who was already an experienced cook."

"Grandma, Irene keeps talking of what a marvelous cook our mother is. I try to think back to remember any particularly outstanding meals she cooked for us through the years. Fried chicken with milk gravy, green beans, usually bought fresh and snapped lovingly by Mama - and mashed potatoes. Those come to mind as one of the fabulous meals Mama can concoct for our family, even in the leanest financial years.

'Also, the country fried steak she hammers with a meat mallet to tenderize the meat so that it is just the right tenderness she requires to set before us. That also she serves with that same delicious graly lavishly over the top of the crispy fried pieces of "hammered" steak that has been carefully rolled in flour with salt and pepper. It is a good thing that no one worries about cholesterol count, as we all would have a real problem, but we just sit there at her table and eat until we can eat no more."

"One thing about your mother being such a good cook - she instills in your whole family, as she had in ours before she married, a love for eating good food, well prepared."
￼Kathryn Bush

Years later, when I thought of all the lovingly prepared meals our mother used to set before us, I realized that her ability to go into her pantry, even in bad times when there was little to choose from, she had managed to nourishingly feed us, and she was always careful to make us realize how fortunate we were to have food during this Great Depression that affects our lives so excruciatingly for these years when our whole country is struggling to survive.

None of us children will ever forget these Great Depression years when we lived in Gainesville, Georgia, on Main Street. I particularly mention the name of our street because it is located about half-way between the railroad depot and downtown. Hobos getting off the freight train cars usually pass in desperate search of, many times, their first and only meal of the day. We figure that they marked our house as a home that would always share at least some food. Invariably, when they do stop and ask for a handout, our mother, with her fine Christian spirit, goes into our kitchen and seeks any leftovers that she can find. Many times, only a baked sweet potato was still warm in the stove; and she usually also puts in one or two of her homemade biscuits. Not a fancy meal, but it drives away the hunger; and they leave with her encouraging smile to remember as they walk on up the street.

Many of the hobos greedily finish the food my mother hands to them before they walked back down our long driveway; but the food reminds them that they are far from home, and many times, they head back toward the freight cars, we figure, to catch a freight car closer to their home. The Depression will not last foreveq and many ofthem want to get back closer to their homes when the hard times finally come to an end.

Suddenly Grandma spoke to me, and I became acutely aware that I had been in a silent reverie considering my family's plight during the Depression.

Grandma said gently, "Try not to take the weight of the world on your shoulders, Katie. This Depression cannot last forever. Just last week, Grandpa was telling me that President Roosevelt has put together several programs that should help tremendously toward getting people back to work."

"Do you really think so, Grandma? It has been so hard on everyone. It is wonderful to think that it will soon be over."

"Grandpa has thought of a plan that will help in our small way to get many of the men back to their hometowns so that their lives can get back to normal," Grandma said.

"Will he tell me about his plan tonight when he comes home?" I asked eagerly.

"He wants to talk to us after supper," Grandma added.

102
￼PART TV/O

THE GREAT DEPRESSION
￼
￼CHAPTER ONE

Bumper Corn Crop

Grandpa walked in early, with Austin close behind him. Grandpa quickly said, "Mattie, I invited Austin for supper as he is a part of the plan I want to talk to you about after we eat."

Grandma looked up from her supper preparations and smiled warmly at Austin. She always enjoyed the rare occasions when he ate with them.

Austin gave his little Grandma a hug and smiled at me.

"Supper will be ready in about fifteen minutes," Grandma informed them. "Would you like some iced tea while you wait?"

"We are both hot and tired" so that sounds great. We will be out in the swing until you call us." Grandpa was already heading in that direction.

I continued to set the table carefully while Grandma put the finishing touches on the Country Fried Steak. A few minutes before, Grandma had taught me how to make the milk graly. I was so proud of myself that it turned out so well for my first effort.

Since this dinner was a favorite meal selection for all of us, we decided to save most of our conversation for our meeting in the parlor after supper.

Amid gracious comments on my gravy, we finally finished eating and walked into the parlor. Grandma was insistent that we'd wait until later to do the dishes.

Grandpa even stood up for the announcement ofhis important plans.

"For several months, I have been observing hobos getting on and off the freight trains in Commerce. They always look so dejected and forlorn that they touched me deeply. Some have always been hobos, of course, and no doubt they always will be since that is the fruitless path they have chosen for their lives. It is the others who wander offthe trains aimlessly seeking handouts of food and any kind of job. Some are bashful in their begging, and others act almost as if others should furnish them with food while they are down and out because of this horrendous Great Depression."

"It is in the hope that a least some of those unfortunate souls can be helped and be rehabilitated that a group of us farmers near Hurricane Shoah hàve decided on a plan."

"For instance, Austin assures me that we have a bumper crop of corn this year. What I want to propose to you, Mattie, is that we sell the corn as early as possible and use one-half our profits to add to the other farmers' donations. We want to set up a fund to buy railroad tickets for each eligible hobo to send him
￼Kathryn Bush

back to his home. We want to give him - each one - $25 to take back with him to buy his first two weeks' groceries, plus one months rent' Each man will be informed of the W.P.A. program President Roosevelt has started to put our unemployed back to work. Each man who is given a ticket home and rent and grocery money to take with him will be made acutely aware of the sacrifice a group of farmers is making toward their future. We realize that one or two will take advantage of this situation, but we honestly feel that if we help put most of them back on the right track to live useful lives, it will be well worth all of our efforts. Well, Mattie, what do you think?"

"I'm overwhelmed, not only with our generosity, but what an idea to get so many ofthose unfortunate a chance to get an early start on their rehabilitation for when this horrible depression is finally over. I've been reading about how the W.P.A. is catching on like wildfire because America is anxious to get back to normal living. Count me in. It will be a privilege to know that I am a part of such an honorable and unselfish project."

"Just the words I knew you would use!" Grandpa beamed.

"What are the others donating?" Grandma had to ask'

"Whichever crop they have in abundance this year' They will also donate

one-half of such a crop, as we are doing," Grandpa explained.

Austin adde4 "We are having forms made up for the men to fill out to see if they qualiff. Also, Des is giving all of us top prices for these donated crops as his

own contribution toward our cause."

Grandpa added, "The last few weeks, I have stopped several hobos and

discussed briefly with them what we planned to do. To a man, hope sprang into their eyes, and all of them admitted enthusiastically that they are eager to get back home with their families. The hope of a job through the government's latest efforts was almost unbelievable to them. Americans bounce back, and I have faith that our plan not will be eagerly accepted but quickly put into action," Grandpa ended firmly.

Grandma said, "This project is the most unselfish, far reaching thing that we have been involved in; and I am with you 100%."

"Me, too!" I blurted out as I was so carried away with the idea' All present smiled affectionately at me and understood.

106
￼CHAPTER TV/O

United We Can Send Them

It was on a Thursday morning that Grandpa and Austin led the meeting of the thirteen farmers who made it know that they wanted to participate in their special project. The meeting was held in a small café in Maysville. Grandpa brought the meeting to order after everyone had relaxed with doughnuts and coffee. The café furnished the refreshments as their contribution to what they considered to be a very worthy cause. When the meeting started, they were as eager to do their part as the farmers. Before the meeting was over, they had offered to make up a box lunch for each man as he was selected.

"Our bumper crop of corn," began Grandpa, "is committed at least one-half ofthe proceeds, to be given to twelve deserving men who have been forced to become hobos during this Great Depression all ofus are suflering through. Since announcing our farm's plans, twelve others ofyou have expressed a desire tojoin us in our efforts to help these men return to their homes, hopefully to get their lives back in order. Some of those men have been riding the rails for several years surviving mostly on the handouts of housewives with precious little food to spare."

"l personally have talked to several of the hobos in Commerce. Almost to a man, the desire closet to their hearts is to get back home to their families, get a job, and get on with their lives," Grandpa said.

"But, Bud" how is just getting them home going to solve anything? Won't they just catch the next freight train when the money gives out?" Jeremy asked. "That, of course, has been our worst concern, but, since Roosevelt

announced his plan for getting people back to work, we feel that help is definitely on the way. The W.P.A. he offers, promises to put our Nation back to work and back on its feet. I don't agree with all of it, but if it will put food back on everyone's table, I'm all for it," Grandpa ended emphatically.

Austin spoke up, "Joe, the biggest company that buys most of our corn each year has promised that they will donate l0% oftheir profits on the corn crop of each farmer who participates in this venture."

Grandpa added 'As we told my wife, Mattie, we propose to buy a one way train ticket (as long as our funds last) for each man who qualifies to return to his home. We will give him the money for one months rent and $25 for two weeks' groceries. Each man is to diligently seek employment during that month. With the WP.A. project reaching so many cities, each man should be able to find a job. Even after careful screening of the men, we expect to have a few deadbeats, but
￼Kathryn Bush

we feel that if we an help the majority get their lives back in order, it will be well worth our efforts.

"You really and truly believe in this project, don't you, Bud?" Mike asked.

"I sincerely do. Our theory is that if we believe in these men, they will respond in like manner," Grandpa said.

"Count me in, Bud. What have I got to lose except half of the best bumper corn crop I've ever raised!" John said with a big smile.

One by one, the thirteen farmers committed themselves to what some considered a Cinderella project, but they, too, wanted to believe that their small effort would unite at least some families and would give the hope of finally getting their lives together with a dignity they had never hoped to have again.

108
￼CHAPTER THREE

The Last One Given

Grandma and I were anxiously awaiting Grandpa's refurn from Commerce. This was the day he and the other donors were to distribute the last of the railroad tickets and money to the deserving hobos.

At long last, we spotted the red dirt flying which meant Grandpa was speeding home to tell us his happy news.

Grandpa lost no time getting out of his car. Without waiting for us to go inside, he said excitedly - "Well, I sent the last qualified hobo on his way home! He was so grateful, he actually had tears in his eyes. I probably did too. It was a very emotional experience for all of us. The sincerity in all the men's eyes could not have been faked. I'm so glad we did this!"

Grandma asked, "Indianapolis, Indiana. He had been riding the rails for almost two years looking for work. Now, he is not only grateful but fu1l of hope for his family's future.

"The other men in our group had similar experiences with the men they donated to. I tell you, none of us thirteen will ever be quite the same again. It really touched our hearts!"
￼
￼PART THREE

AFTER BUCK CAME
￼
￼CHAPTER ONE

Forfv Grandchildren

Not even when I was a child of eleven could I ever name or recall ever meeting many of Grandpa and Grandma Reynolds' forty grandchildren! Their nine children and their spouses produced that number.

The Rey'nolds'Family Reunions that were usually held at our grandparents' home gave us all an opportunity to be with many of our cousins we seldom had a chance to see.

There were some great cooks in our large Reynolds family, and every year they tried to outdo each other with their special dishes. All us kids had to do was eat till we almost dropped - - miserably too full but happy.

I have never seen such mountains ofdelicious potato salad; and the platters piled high with golden fried chicken made my mouth water. Looking over at the dessert table, I quickly spotted Aunt Laylia's famous Banana Muffins. All of us loved those so much, I knew that when we started filling our plates, I'd better grab one of those muffins in a hurry, as they always disappeared fast.

All of the cooks had outdone themselves this year. Even the pickles and other delicacies showed how much time and effort had gone into the preparation of this fine feast.

As usual, before our feast began, some of my aunts were trying to needle Aunt Laylia's Banana Muffin recipe from her; but, as usual, she would give her treasured recipe to no one. W always kind of wondered why she adamantly refused to share it. She claimed it was her only claim to fame, and she int3nded to keep it to herself. !

Actually, Aunt Laylia's muffins were so moist and sweet, many of my relatives were often seen trying to trade extra pieces of chicken, etc., for just one more muffin! There were not many successful trades, however, because each person wanted to relish eating his or her own muffin at the end of the lavish meal.

Aunt Laylia was known far and wide for her Banana Muffins; and she doggedly claimed that she wanted her contribution to the yearly reunion to be totally hers.

"It gets harder every year for me to find quality bananas to make my muffins," AuntLaylia said to Grandma.

To herself, Grandma said" "Every year,Laylia calls attention to her muffins with this same sentence. I do wish she would change her tune. Her muffins are marvelous, but I wish she'd just be happy with the fact that they disappear almost as soon as the Blessins is said."
￼Kathryn Bush

"Ralph, try not to get tickled,'Grandma said indulgently.

Ralph grinned as if part of a private joke, which it really was.

When everyone was seated at the long outdoor tables, Grandpa said his

eloquent Blessing. He thanked God again for his privilege of being the head of such a large and successful family. When he finished, everyone said, 'Amen," very softly. Each knew in his heart how much Grandpa loved his family.

Food started disappearing rapidly from the large bowls and platters. The Banana Muffins were disappearing so quickly that I barely got one before they were gone. However, we all knew that Aunt Laylia always had what seemed to be a never-ending supply in the back of her car! Even that didn't last long.

One thing all of us relatives looked forward to was this fabulous yearly feast, and we were never disappointed. This year proved to be the finest ever.

For some reason, my parents and brothers and sisters could not be on time for the Reunion. Grandma had told me that they would be a little late, but she assured me that she would fill their plates and keep them safely for them.

I heard a car pull up, and I couldn't believe my joy in realizing it was my familyl

Buck jumped out of the car, and, running toward me, actually gave me a big hug! "l can't believe it, but I really missed you - - a lot!" he said quickly.

"l missed you, too!" I cried suddenly realizing how much. The rest of the family gathered around me with big grins on their faces. Daddy swooped me up in a big bear hug, and Mama waited her turn.

After a short time, Irene said impishly, "I never ate so many wishbones in my life!"

Not to be outdone, Mickey added "I never get used to sitting in your place in the car. I can't see good for Daddy's head."

Wall laughed at the spoof of my favorite piece of chicken and my special place in our car. Perhaps they were thankful that they had been spared my unfortunate case ofPolio, and gave me special privileges.

Mama's hug lasted for a few moments, and I could sense she had missed me too. My oldest brother, Curtis, was far too dignified for a mere hug, so he shook my small hand with his big one. "You're taking good care of my suitcase, I hope," he said with a fond twinkle in his eye.

I nodded and smiled.

Mama asked quietly,'Are you all right?"

"I couldn't be better, Mama. I've learned to do so many things. The butter to

go on Grandma's rolls is what I chumed yesterday. I gathered all the eggs for the cakes and - -!" I said excitedly.

"Slow down, Katie," Daddy laughed. "One would think you d taken over the farm!"

"She did - rather!" Grandpa Said as hejoined us. "This young lady is pretty speciaM couldn't play the organ without her expert pumping."

I beamed with pleasure.

'And there is not a lazy bone in her body!" Grandma beamed at me with pride.

Mama did not miss that look and was visibly pleased that Grandma and I had developed a fondness for each other.

"Now, Ethel, you and Charlie and the kids come on and eat this wonderful n4
￼FORTY GRAND

food that I've saved for you. Wait much longer and I can't guarantee that one of those strapping young men might not discover your food and devour it before they think!"

"I am starving," Charlie said. "That church service lasted much longer than we expected!" He winked at Grandpa.

Mama looked a little sheepish as she was the one who had insisted they attend church before they rushed to the Reunion.

The rest of my family ate contentedly - talking to me between bites. Mama said, "Didn't Laylia make her marvelous Banana Muffins this year?"

Puzzled, Grandma said," As a matter of fact, she did - and they were delicious as usual." She quickly searched each of their plates and there were no muffins on any ofthem. She threw back her head and laughed. "Laylia will be very flattered when she finds out her muffins were so good, somebody ate yours too." Suddenly her face sobered. "That means someone did a very bad thing. Excuse me - I'll go see if I can find the culprit."

"That's my Mama!" Ethel said softly.

Grandma walked around seeming to chat with everyone who was relaxing contentedly in their chairs and visiting with each other.

Suddenly, Grandma stopped in front of Ralph's chair.

"Ralph, may I speak to you a moment?"

"Sure, Grandma," he said as he raised himself to his full height of six foot four. Now he towered over Grandma, who was a fiery four foot eleven.

When Grandma had Ralph safely out of earshot of the rest, she said hotly, "Ralph, why did you do it?"

"Do what, Grandma?" Ralph asked with forced innocence.

"Don't play games with me! I see the muffin crumbs you forgot to wipe off your mustache. I suspected it was you, and now I am sure!"

"But, Grandma, how could you convict me for a few crumbs on my mustache?" Ralph countered.

"Because I know how neat you are with that fool mustache of yours."

"Okay, I'm guilty. When I saw Aunt EthelS family's plates all lined up, I decided that if I just took the Banana Muffins off each plate, no one would notice," Ralph finished lamely.

"But there were so many of them. How could you possibly eat all the muffins? I saw you eat three of them during our meal," Grandma accused, probably in part because she was only able to end up with one.

"Well, my eyes were bigger than my stomach. I could only eat three of the muffins I had taken from their plates, so I carefully wrapped the others and hid them in my truck. My conscience bothered me but the deed was done and I couldn't return them to the plates," Ralph added meekly.

"Well thank goodness Ethel and Charlie will get one each, and the children can have pudding. I saw some of that left. Now run and fetch the last muffins. Ralph, I know you have a monstrous appetite, but this was unforgivable!"

"I'm sorry Grandma, I truly am. I'll be right back."

When Ralph returned Grandma sent him back outside to get Ethel and Charlie. Grandma looked down at the delicious muffins. She thought to herself, 'After I give Ethel and Charlie one each, there will be one left. I can't divide that among the other children." She stared at the third muffin for a long moment, then

115
￼Kathryn Bush

quickly popped it into her own mouth! 'After all, I am the greatest fan of the Banana Muffin - and I deserve it!"

Grandma was barely able to wipe the crumbs from her mouth when the others came into the room. All that was left was her guilty look!

Deciding to pretend not to notice the crumbs still on Grandma's chin, Ralph said quickly, "I explained to Aunt Ethel that I could not resist taking their muffins. She very kindly said that she might have done the same thing if she had been confronted with so many of those delicious muffins. We agreed that Aunt Laylia has quite a knack for making muffins."

Ralph raised a tall eyebrow at Grandma, wondering if he should indeed let her know he knew where the third muffin had gone; but after the fuss she had just raised with him, he decided against it.

Ralph did laugh to himself - to think that this little Grandma had given in to her muffin temptationl

Noting that Ralph still had not conholled his silent laughter, Grandma said sheepishly, "Okay, now you know I'm human, too! For both our sakes, you are going to have to work that secret recipe for the Banana Muffins out of Laylial I have been trying for years. If I had the recipe, I could make it more often, and we wouldn't have to wait until the yearly Reunion." Her face, he realized, was very serious.

'As much as I drop in on you at mealtime, I owe it to you to try," Ralph said.

'After all, I'm pretty persuasive when I make a real effort." Ralph grinned broadly at Grandma, and he almost picked her up in a comradely gesture, but the look in her eyes stopped him cold.

"Give it your best shot," Grandma said. She knew if anyone could get her that treasured recipe, it would be Ralph.

After a nice visit with my family, Grandma was heading toward the house with some empty bowls. The bowls were swiftly taken from her by a very talL grandson with a beaming, impish smile as he looked down at her.

"Now what will you think of your Grandson with the overactive appetite?"

"I mean to tell you, I did it! I actually have Aunt Laylia's recipe! It wasn't easy, though."

Grandma actually glowed with excitement. "Ralph, I can't believe it! I've been trying for years. There is one ingredient that I have never been able to figure out. I know all the rest. Let me see it. I've got to know!" Grandma said eagerly.

"Well now, I'm not so sure my innocent little Grandma would approve of Aunt Laylia's reckless ingredientsl" Ralph teased.

"Oh Ralph, don't keep me in suspense - what is it?"

Ralph handed Grandma the recipe, but said, "You do not have this in your kitchen!"

"Cooking Sherry, huh?" Grandma grinned. "I allow that."

"Try Rum!" Ralph watched Grandma grimace.

"No wonder she kept her recipe a secret all these years!" Grandma added.

She thought for a moment, then said, "Oh well, we've been eagerly Laylia's Banana Muffins all these years, and ignorance was bliss!"

"Wasn't it ever?" Ralph laughed. "Ralph, do you suppose - - !"

ll6
￼FORTY GRAND

"Consider it done Grandma, I'll be by on Tiresday. I'll have il then."

"'\ilb'll be having your favorite - counûry fries steak. Why don't you ûry to come a little earW Who knows., maybe I could get the Banana Muffins made in time for supper?"

"Itll be here - eround four o'slock. I can get of work early that day''

They were like two oonspirators. but both were outrageously happy to have the famous recipe for Grap{ma's files.

lt7
￼
￼CHAPTERTWO

Irene Remembers Terrifiiing Ride

After all the Reynolds clan had collected their dishes and said their goodbyes, Grandma, Grandpa and our family went into the large kitchen.

Grandma asked Grandpa to slice enough Country Ham for supper. She turned to my mother, Ethel, and said" "You all will stay if I cook Country Ham, Red Eye grary and hot biscuits, won't you?"

"Will we ever! You know how much I love that ham and I'm teaching my family to love it, too! I will make the hot biscuits," Mama cried.

"I rather hoped you might. Your father has akeady fired up the stove in anticipation of your staying," Grandma said happily.

After our large family had consumed every bite of the delicious Country Ham along with the biscuits and Red Eye grary, we as one went into the parlor to talk for a few minutes before Mama, Daddy and our siblings would have to drive back to our home in Gainesville, leaving Buck and me to visit a little longer.

After some idle chatter, Irene wanted to be heard. The look on her face reflected the seriousness ofthe subject she wished to talk about.

The subject Irene brought up proved to be, as each time it was told, very painful to our older brother, Curtis. The reason was he had always felt the full responsibility ofthe inevitable consequences ofthe childish prank he had pulled. In Curt's mind it was not a prank - he actually believed he could successfully steer our car down that hill!

"mama had taken a hot dish to a lady in our church who was recuperating from a serious illness," Irene began, looking at Curt to be sure he would not interrupt and take her story away from her. 'Anyway, Mama carefully turned the wheels toward the curb. She threatened bodily harm to any of us who would tamper with the brakes while she quickly took the covered dish to her fiiend."

"We were on a steep hill, and the lady's house was perched up on an unbelievably high hill above us. Mama climbed quickly up the steps and the woman was waiting at the door for her. Mama said, "I can't some in Gladys, I had to leave my five children in the car, even though I don't think that was a great idea. I hope you enjoy this bean salad. I raised the beans myself in my small garden."

"Before either lady could continue their brief conversation, our Mama saw out of the side of her eye in horror that our car was beginning to move slowly down the hill.

"Mama, with seeming superhuman strength, leaped over the banister on the porch, practically glided over the many steps, and literally ran until she caught
￼Kathryn Bush

up with the car. Somehow, she managed to open the door and get inside on the drivers side. She did not panic until she got complete control ofthe car! Before we reached the foot of the hill, Mama brought the car t a full stop.

"We all stared in amazement and horror as we looked down into the deep ravine, realizing full well that if our mother had not saved us, we would have all perished when the car plunged into that ravine!"

Irene had everyone's full attention now and everyone was very quiet as we pondered what could have occurred ifour mother had not loved us all enough to risk her life for us.

Daddy rubbed his eyes quickly to hide a quick tear and said, "We'd better be getting home now. I have a hard day at work tomorrow."

The punishment Curt later received would always remind him never to be guilty of such a thoughtless act in the future!

120
￼CHAPTER THREE

Tornado - Alwavs Remembered

It was soon after Buck arrived that we decided after we finished our chores, we would go out and play horseshoes. Buck was looking forward to practicing the tips Grandpa had given him the day before. Ofcourse, I was still undefeated champion, and he felt that with enough practice, he just might be able to beat me, at least a game or two.

Just as we stepped outside, it started to rain - hard. There had been no thunder to warn of the change in weather, and we were not only disappointed" we were surprised that the cloud had come up so suddenly. Just as we got back inside the house, a flash of lightening lit up the room followed by a rather loud clap of thunder.

Grandma said, "Why don't you go into the parlor and read until the storm is over?"

"Yes, Ma'am, we said in unison.

We had just settled ourselves down to read for a while when I asked Buck a question that had been bothering me occasionally ever since I left home.

"When a thunderstorm comes up at home, Buck, does it still disturb Mama as much as it did right after the Tornado? I know, I still get pretty shaky sometimes when we are upstairs at night when a storm is particularly bad. Mama and I seem to be the ones that cannot seem to forget how frightened we were after the Tornado when our fear of being in another tornado was so acute. Does she still get as scared as I still do sometimes when they are real bad?"

"I am afraid she does! In fact, Daddy is beginning to feel it might be a good idea to leave Gainesville with all of its terrible memories of the Tornado. They are going to discuss all those ideas with you when you go home.

"You knoq as much as I love Gainesville and being with all my friends, it does my heart good to think that we could move away from the possibility of being in another tornado," I said" with hope in my voice that I could move with my family where tornadoes were not a threat in the springtime.

"Buck, did I ever show you the paper I wrote for my English class on that horrible Tornado? I got an A+ That probably was one reason I made an A in that subject."

"I heard Mama talking about it. After she read that, she agreed that someday you will be a writer. Do you have a copy with you? It would be a good time for me to read it with a bad thunderstorm going on!" He sounded as if he was teasing, but when I looked at his face, I saw that he was not.
￼Kathryn Bush

"I'll go get the paper, and I'll be right back." I returned quickly and when I handed my essay to Buck, he took it eagerly as his memory as mine, was still very fresh as the Monster Tornado occurred only a few months ago, April 6, 1936 - this year!

I watched Buck's face as he read, and it mirrored his own emotions as he read my account of the horrible storm. When he finished reading, he looked serious and thoughttul. "This just about says it all," he finally said.

I said, "Do you remember where Daddy was. He was at work; and he saw the storm coming. As he closed the heavy door, the wind took it right out of his hands and sent it sailing through the air!" Buck exclaimed.

"Irene told us she was on her way to school, and she stopped at Penney's for a small purchase. She was in the basement; and the top two stories were blown away. She was blown against a stove and received a slight burn on her face, but it was a miracle she was spared' I said.

"You can say that again. Also, Mama said that was the only injury any of us had from the tornado," Buck said.

"Mickey and the other high school students were led around the downtown area to make certain they did not see the destruction there. She was so late getting home we really worried about her, remember?" I said.

Buck said" "Curtis was right there in the middle of things, but he was not hurt. He wrote that poem later about the Tornado."

"I know he did. He had never written a poem before, but he felt so deeply about the Tornado's almost complete destruction of downtown, he wrote a fine poem."

Buck said, "I remember Curt said everyone had better enjoy that poem, because he would never write another one!"

'As you and I both knoq we were standing in front of our house with Mama. When I looked at that black sky with only the horizon showing, the yellow streak all the way across was teeming with debris that the Tornado was stirring up in its path. I have since heard that it was twin tornadoes. I can believe it because that was the most frightening sight I've ever seen."

"Me. Too. It is a sight I'11 never be able to erase from my memory!" Buck said sadly.

'About once a week, for many weeks after the Tornado, a terrible thunderstorm came - it seemed about the same time in the evenings. The thunder sometimes rumbled, reminding me of that horrible sound we heard before the Tornado struck. I hope I never hear that sound again as long as I live."

"Me too." Buck agreed.

"Anyway, I'll never forget how I cringed each time those thunderstorms came

up. I went into my bedroom many times, hoping the storm would be over soon. Mama was usually with me, and she was just as scared as I was!"

"I remember, and what you might not have noticed, many times, I was there on the same bed on the other side of Mama!" Buck declared.

The Tornado was such a frightening, horrible experience I am sure that it will have a lasting effect on all our lives. The memory will fade through the years, but it was such a traumatic event for all of us, it will be something we will never completely forget, as much as we may try," I said sadly.

122
￼FORTY GRAND

Grandma came in to tell us that the rain had stopped. We jumped up quickly as we were eager to play horseshoes, and get the Tornado out ofour thoughts!

t23
￼
￼CHAPTER FOUR

There He Is In The Pulpit

On Sunday after Buck arrived, Grandpa informed us that we would be riding to church I Grandma's well-kept-up-buggy.

We were excited as we seldom had a chance to ride in her buggy.

There was still a twinkle in Grandpa's eyes as we pulled into the church yard. He did not explain but continued to enjoy some private news.

Grandpa observed our faces closely as we accompanied him into the now well-known Wilson's Church. Only his eyes betrayed his solemn expression.

An usher seated us in Grandpa Reynolds'usual pew. We looked around trying to see why Grandpa was wearing such a happy but smug expression.

We did not have to wait very long to see the choir director, accompanied by our seventeen-year-old cousin, Uncle Ed's son, WJ. (I have never known what 'W.J.'stands for.) We listened while W.J. was inhoduced as today's speaker. Their regular minister was out of town.

Our mouths were still open with the surprise of this new development. We had heard only this week that WJ. had decided to dedicate his life as a minister. What a great opportunity for him to be asked to speak todayl

Our attention was glued to the pulpit all during W.J.'s very serious speech. The subject he had selected held the congregation's interest as well. His topic was "Life's Priorities."

At the end of the service, the beaming face of W.J. as he stood shaking hands at the door (alongside one ofthe Elders) gave us all the confidence that he would become an outstanding minister who would hold the attention of his future congregatlons.

I said to Buck as we walked down the steps, "Did you see Gertrude and Louise in the choir? I didnl know either one sang in the choir."

Buck said" "Uh-huh. Gertrude winked at me and Louise smiled real big."

"With forty grandchildren, our cousins are apt to turn up almost anywhere around these parts!"

"You can say that again. Hey, I was real proud of WJ. He's going to make a good preacher."

"l think so, too," I said.

Grandpa gathered us back into the buggy. We were almost a little disappointed Grandma would not let him speed home. However, we leisurely talked about how proud all of us were of W:J. and his sermon.
￼
￼CHAPTER FIVE

Whose Surprise?

Grandma had hoped Raymond and his family would be at the church in time to hear W.J. preach. Howeveq they had been delayed and drove directly to Grandma and Grandpa's house. They probably went to church first like our mama always does.

Grandma prides herself in preparing most of her Sunday dinner on Saturday afternoon, so that when they return from church on Sunday, all she has to do is heat most of the meal on her massive wood stove.

It doesn't take Grandpa long to fire up the stove. He loves to eat and a pleasant display of food to look forward to spurs him on.

Buck and I set the table carefully and we were also anticipating eagerly one ofGrandma's Sunday dinners. Back then, the dinner was served on Sundays in the middle of the day always after church in our grandparents'home.

We had just settled down waiting for Grandpa to ask the Blessing when we heard a car drive up near the well.

Grandma said happily, "Why - it is Raymond and his family!"

On a side table, Grandma had placed four more plates in case her invitation to Raymond by letter last week was accepted.

Uncle Raymond Marilee, Edress and Gloria came into the house. Greetings were plentiful; and finally more chairs were put around the large table and the extra places set.

Grandma quickly put the food into serving dishes; and at last sat down for Grace. She surprised everyone by saying, "Raymond, your family has not been here in so long, why don't you say the blessing?"

Raymond was shocked but he meekly said he'd love to. It was a short but effective Grace; and it especially covered the feast Grandma had prepared. Edress said to Buck and me, "How long have you been here?"

Buck said, "I've been here less than a week, but Katie has been here about three weeks."

"I guess Grandpa has taught you how to play horseshoes by now?" she asked.

"He certainly has, "I said. "It gives us a fun game top play after our chores are done each day."

"Enough of childish conversation until dinner is over!" Grandma said, warily afraid someone would comment on the daily chores.

"Mama invited us to come and help ourselves to the bountiful vegetables and fruit your farm has produced this sumrner. We were happy she wrote as it has
￼Kathryn Bush

been quite a while since we visited you. Both of you look hale and hearty; and I'm glad to see you looking so well.

Katie and Buck are tan and seem to be really enjoying their time with you."

"We arel" we answered for Grandma.

"Papa, Austin wrote to me about the wonderful thing you and several of your farmer friends did for some of the deserving hobos in Commerce. That was one ofthe finest gestures I've ever heard ofl"

"Those people were so miserable and without direction - just hopping freight trains to different places in an attempt to stay alive." Grandpa remembered.

"Well, those few who qualified for your generosity benefited greatly. Did you ever hear from any ofthem later to see ifthey took advantage ofyour help>" Raymond wanted to know.

'As a matter of fact, I heard from several. Just last week, I heard from John who went back to Kansas. He decide to put on clean clothes, shave, making his appearance neat. Then he applied for the job he ad worked at before the Great Depression. Times were a little better at the grainery where he used to work. His foreman remembered what a hard worker he used to be and hired him on the spot!" Grandpa said proudly.

"Joe and Harry went back to Atlanta and had a similar success story. It seems President Roosevelt's efforts to put people back to work with his various programs are beginning to pay off

"l do expect to hear from some of the other men in time; and the ones I have already heard from have promised to drop me a note from time to time letting me know how their lives are going."

"Hey, Papa," Raymond said, "I'm real proud ofyou for what you have done for those men. I'm sure you and your friends set an example that is sure to be followed by other farmers across our country."

"We hope so. It gives us all a great feeling to know we helped." Grandpa said softly.

"Now let's eat!" Grandpa said grufily, trying to hide his emotions.

128
￼CHAPTER SIX

Fun At Checkers

"Our Gang" was engrossed in taking turns playing Checkers, each in his turn after a winner was decided. We looked up to see the impish smile of our cousin, Lucile, in the doorway ofthe kitchen.

"Hi, City Kidsl" she said. "What are you doing playing checkers? Your reputation at ringers at horseshoes has spread; so I dropped by to heckle you while you play. Here you are playing checkers instead. I'm on and off champion of this gamel" She selected her words carefully because she had a vivid memory of a recent rainy afternoon when Grandma beat her soundly.

"Do you want to play the winner of this game?" I asked, confident it would be me as I had won the last three.

Lucile had quickly picked up on a new move I was using, and said, "I'11 just watch for a while. Doesn't your sister, Irene, ever come to Grandma's house anymore?"

"Not in the last few years, "I answered. "She is involved with her friends and our church, so she doesn't want to take the time from her activities.."

"Then where is Mickey this year?" Lucile persisted.

"Mickey wanted to take a summer photography course," Buck joined in. "She is even learning to develop her own film herself. She finds that fascinating!"

As Woody had before her, Lucile found it hard to believe that Mickey would allow any interest at home to come before visiting her beloved grandparents. Lucile suddenly looked out the window she was near and said, "Oh, no, it can't be time for W.J. to pick me up already! I just got here."

With a bright smile on her face and a quick wave at us all, Lucile bid us goodbye, promising to come by again before our visit was over.

"Good to see you," I said. "Têll W.J. to stop by, too, if he can." "Will do," Lucile promised and disappeared out the door.
￼
￼CHAPTER SEVEN

All Eves On The Road

Cary Mary, Buck and I were busily engaged in a game of double horseshoes when we became acutely aware of a speeding car. We looked up to see the usual cloud of dust created when our Grandpa tore down the old dirt road at his usual breakneck speed.

As one, we ran into the yard to greet our Grandpa when we noticed he had a lone passenger. It was our cousin, Nolan, who jumped quickly down, we assumed, to speak to Buck and me, since we had not seen him so far this trip. We noticed his rather pale face; and we realized instantly that Grandpa had given even him quite a scare! Nolan was the only cousin who would ride with Grandpa on a regular basis; so we waited to hear the event that had frightened him so.

After exchanging greetings, Nolan explained hurriedly that Grandpa had not spotted a huge rock in the middle of the road. When he hit it, they were thrown into the cotton field. Still expertly handling his cart at full speed" Grandpa managed to at least get his vehicle back on the road.

Visibly shaken, but stubbornly unable to admit his error, Grandpa muttered. 'Almost turned us over that time!"

Nolan was too surprised to answer. They rode in silence the rest of the way to Grandpa's farm.

I believe Grandpa was glad Nolan hopped out quickly as it seemed to give him a chance to wave to us briefly and rush into the house. All of us were sure he wanted to tell his story to Grandma himself before Nolan had a chance to give his version.

We had decided to play Monopoly since Nolan joined us, so we went into the kitchen to play on the large table. It was about an hour before Grandpa appeared in the doorway. I declare his hat looked at an even cockier angle than usual; and he smiled fondly at us all.

"Well, I have to get back to Commerce have a lot to do before night on the house I'm finishing up there. After all, when I put my name on the corner of a house, it has to meet my standards.

Nolan rose to the occasion and went over and took Grandpa's hand. "l wish I could ride back with you, but I am right in the middle of this Monopoly game and I seem to be winnins."

Grandpa grinned do*n at Nolan behind his bushy mustache and they gave each other a definite look ofmutual understanding.

Wall stood at the door until Grandpa's car was enveloped by the red dust.
￼
￼CHAPTER EIGHT

Sleeping Profits

It was on an afternoon that Grandma was upstairs and buck had decided to go over and play marbles with Cary that Woody walked over to keep me company. It was such a rare occasion that I decided to discuss with Woody a subject that had been on my mind my whole trip.

"Why doesn't Grandpa spray his trees and take advantage of the paper shell pecan market, so that he could make the exha money?"

"He stays so busy. I guess he thinks that eventually Austin will have time to get that job done," Woody said, a little surprised that such a subject could possibly interest me.

"I am interested for several reasons. One, I love paper shell pecans, and for the last year or two there have been none here on Grandpa's farm. I asked him the reason and he explained that they have to be sprayed in order for them to produce. I tried to understand why some other crops would come before the pecans, and I an afraid I do not really understand. If they are so high in food value, why hasn't Grandpa noticed the value to people who need the nourishment these hard times?"

"IO guess it is just one of the last areas to explore in order to make a farm nrn successfully," Woody answered thoughtfully. She also was one who loved the paper shell pecans and I could tell she would be very happy ifGrandpa would take the necessary steps to make them a successful part of his farm, "Corn is good, but one of my teachers taught us that pecans are far more useful in giving us a balance diet."

"Maybe if I talked to Austin, he would be able to convince Grandpa pecans could help both our diets and the farm income" I said sincerely.

"lt wouldn't hurt to try," Woody finished.

"Speaking of trees, do you remember last summer when we climbed Grandma's prize cherry tree?" Woody said with amusement.

"I certainly do. We scrambled down the cherry tree when we spotted Grandma coming. Except Mickey. She was too far up the tree to escape."

'And when Grandma was frustrated to find only Mickey up in the tree, she had to spank her - even though she was her favorite grandchild." We laughed heartily at that fact.

"Did you ever stop to consider that maybe Mickey was the only one who did not try to pull any pranks on Grandma?" I asked.

"You may be right,: Woody agreed. "l'd better get on home and help Mama with supper. I'll send Buck back. It's been fun!"

"For me. Too," I agreed.
￼
￼CHAPTER NINE

Swinging Grandma

One afternoon, Buck and I returned from playing Monopoly with Cary and Mary. We had been successful in winning today. Buck came in first, and I came in second. Mary was not pleased as she had thought, right up to the last of the game, that she would win.

As we came around the front of the house, we saw Grandma swinging slowly back and forth, in the wide swing Grandpa made for her years ago.

Grandma saw us and smiled, "If I had a dollar for each swing I've gone back and to, I'd be a very wealthy lady. All of my nine children were rocked gently in this swing until they drifted off to sleep. I always enjoyed swinging more than rocking. I'm afraid you have caught me swinging and reminiscing about the many miles I have moved in this old swing."

Buck asked, :Did you swing our Mama in this swing, too?"

"Indeed I did. She took extra time because I honestly believe she enjoyed the ride!" Grandma smiled.

"That's our Mama!" I said with affection, "She always likes to ride - even now."

"Grandma, "Buck said, "Remember when Woody recalled the story about when she and Mickey climbed up in your cherry tree? Mickey was left high and dry in the top when you came and made them climb down. Woody said you had to spank Mickey as she was the only one you could find."

Grandma remembered unhappily.

"Mickey was no more guilty than Woody, but I had to discipline someone. If I hadn't shown up in time, I'd have never had enough cherries left for my Sunday pie!"

Buck and I had to suppress a giggle at the thought of Grandma spanking Mickey, her very favorite grandchild!

I said, "Grandma, while we are talking about trees, I'd like to ask you about those Japanese Walnut trees Grandpa planted so many years ago. I believe you have two trees. I am fascinated at the shape ofthe nuts -just like a heart. I have never seen them before, but they really are good. They almost always come out whole when you crack them."

"There is really not much to tell, but I'll go on record right now as saying they are my favorite nuts. Years ago, when your Grandpa built our house, he wanted to be sure that we had a variety of fruit and nut trees. A man at the nursery where he bought all the trees told him about a new kind ofwalnut hee.
￼Kathryn Bush

He said he had just planted three of such trees in his own yard. The idea of such a rare nut tree appealed to your Grandpa,. And he purchased the last two trees the man had on hand. When he got them home, I said to him, "Now what possessed you to buy such scrawny trees?"

"He laughed and said, 'They may be scrawny now, but the man showed me a picture of some grown trees and they grow to be huge. I'll just give them a little extra care, and they will be fine."

I said, "He must have really given them a lot ofcare because they are now some of the largest trees on your farm."

"They are the best tasting walnuts I've ever eaten," said Grandma.

"You sent us a few last Christmas, and we practically fought over them," Buck said.

"Maybe next Christmas, I can manage to send you enough so that everyone can enjoy them," Grandma said.

"Since neither of you have legs long enough to help with the swinging, mine are getting a little tired. Let's go in the house so that I can start supper." Grandma flashed a fond smile that included both of us.

136
￼CHAPTER TEN

Premium Watermelons Sell First

Buck and I were competing at horseshoes when we heard Austin approaching in Grandpa's wagon, He stopped the horses when he saw us. ,.Hey, Kids." he called to us. "l'm taking this load of watermelons to the market in Maysville. Would you like to come along?"

"That would be great!" we said at the same time. .,We'll have to ask Grandma," I said" and without hesitation, headed for the kitchen where Grandma was snapping pole beans.

"Grandma, Austin wants us to ride on the wagon with the watermelons he is going to sell at the market in Maysville. Please may we go?"

"Of course, but be careful to keep your balance on the melons. That wagon is really loaded."

"We'll find ourselves a comfortable safe perch and we'll be fine," I said. "Thanks, Grandma," Buck said.

We had just passed the barn when two mischievous heads appeared from

behind part ofthe watermelons. cary and Mary laughed at our astonished faces! We did not know that they were coming, too.

Austin grinned and said, "Those two imps usually help me unload Grandpa's melons. Now, I'm fortunate enough to hire four helpers instead of two. I pay t*o cents per melon. Are you interested?" He looked at me and Buck.

'Are we ever!" Buck exclaimed excitedly. I added, .A wagon ride and pay, too! That is super."

All of us chatted happily all the way to Maysville. Austin seemed to have something on his mind, so he let us do most of the talking. After all, he is the overseer of Grandpa's entire farm and many times he said he uses the wagon transit time for thinking.

As we approached one of the two Farmers'Markets - the largest one - Austin slowed the horses as he noticed John Matthers waving franticaliy for us to stop. 'Austin, have you made any definite commitments for that load of melonsi"

he asked hopefully.

"Not yet. Jerry at the other market always buys whatever we produce," Austin said quietly.

"Darn, those are fine looking watermelons! They look better than any I've seen all season. Tell you what - I'll give you ten cents more per melon than you could get anywhere else. Is it a deal?" John asked anxiously.

Austin rubbed his chin with his hand. ..But, John, I'm afraid Jerry may be counting on getting this load."
￼i'W.

have Coke and a candy bar. Too, with all the money we've earned,"

Kathryn Bush

John said firmly, 'All right, I'll give you twelve cents more per melon, but that is as high as I can go and still make a small profit'"

Austin knew John's reputation for never getting the short end ofa deal, but he realized he must take advantage ofJohn's offer.

'All right, John. It's a deal. You won't need to furnish anyone to unload the wagon. I have four eager helpers I brought with me.

..That's great. My helpers are at lunch just now, so your kids will speed things up

considerably."

John was pleased with his bargaining efforts.

Like clociwork, us four kids unloaded the large wagon with no breakage at

all. Both Austin and John were very pleased with our efforts.

John paid Austin the agreed price and we all got into the wagon. We expected

Austin to take us to the general store so that we could spend part of our money on candy and the like. Instead he pulled up in front ofthe Palace Theater'

It's been hard for me to keep this surprise, but a new Shirley Temple movie is playing at this theater starting today and here we are!

- -..I ileared permission with Mom and Grandma, so we will have a real treat

ahead ofus.

"Now just this once. I am going to pay you each an extra penny per melon

since I recèived a bonus, too. At three cents per melon, you should be able to pay your admission and eat popcorn to your heart's content!"

"I've never been able to get enough popcorn' so now I'll really enjoy mine!" Cary declared.

"un Mary wisely said.

':You certainly can, and you will still have a little left over," Austin informed

them.

.Austin, after the movie. can I stop at the store for a minute to get two spools of

light blue thread? I'd like to surprise Grandma with those'"

Austin was touched that I wanted to spend some of my hard earned money to

take a little gift to Grandma.

In the back of the wagon, on the way home, Austin heard the familiar chatter

heT noticed on the way top Maysville. He was turning several problems over in his head. Suddenly, he became aware that the talking had ceased. Puzzled" he turned his head to see what was going on back there. He was astonished to see four very tired children fats asleep on the hay that had cushioned the watermeions. Austin smiled and decided they had certainly earned their rest.

Grandma was waiting on the porch and was rather concerned that she saw none of the kids in the wagon with Austin.

To relieve her anxiety, Austin called to Grandma, "They are all sleeping peacefully on the hay."

138
￼CHAPTER ELEVEN

Fotch Has Good Eve

The tension ofthe horseshoe game had reached a high level when we became aware that we were being watched with some interest. Cary, Mary and Buck and I turned around to face our cousin, Fotch. We did not even know he had come to see us.

A little embarrassed that he had heard us squabbling a tad, we ran toward him to greet him.

Fotch said with admiration, "Buck, one day you are going to give Katie a run for her money. I've heard how she even beat all the men at the Reunion this year." Buck grinned and said, "Katie told me some of the tricks Grandpa taught her,

and my ringers are more often now."

"Grandpa's the Pro all right!" Fotch stated proudly.

"How about trying to beat me in horseshoes? I seem to be the champ today -

at least the last two games," Buck said.

Mary and Cary had listened with some interest, waiting until we had a

chance to "visit" a few moments with the cousin we had not seen in a year. Fotch said quickly before throwing his first shoe, ,.Mama found an old picture in her trunk the other day. It looked like a Rogues' Gallery. lt was probably taken at a Reunion at Grandma's house about I 923 L The only ones vou would recognize are your brother, curtis, in that cute little outfit Auni pttret iraa made for him. Also, Irene stood next to him. Grandma and Grandoa were on either end of the front row. Somehow, Grandpa did not look quite ai tall as six foot three, and Grandma did not look as short as four foot eleven. Maybe

Grandma had not developed Osteoporosis at that time."

"What the heck is that?" Mary wanted to know.

"I'm not sure - but I heard Mama talking about it to a friend the other day. It

sgunde{ like it makes you shorter." Fotch ended lamely, but was very pleâsed that he knew about something they did not know.

"I sure hope I never have that!" I said.

"I'm sure it would never dare to attack me!" Mary said strongly without thinking how it sounded!

Buck said a little shyly, "Males do not have that terrible disease, do they?"

"I don't know, but I hope not!" Fotch said emphatically. .,Now let's get on with the game."

The tips I had given Buck paid off, and he remained champion for at least another hour before my persistent ringers became too much fore him.
￼Kathryn Bush

After a while, all of us became bored with horseshoes, so we turned to Fotch.

"I see you still keep your sling shot in your back pocket," observed Buck' "Why don't you show us how great you are at shooting it?"

"Yeah, Fotch!" we all joined in.

"I just practice a lot," Fotch said, pleased.

'A larkjust landed on that fence over there. Can you hit it?" Cary wanted to

know.

"That's too easy, "Fotch said. "How about that squirrel sitting a distance

away. We were convinced he couldn't hit anything that far away with a mere sling

shot.

Fotch quietly took his sling shot out of his pocket and with what seemed like

one motion aimed at the squirrel and killed it with a single shot!

"That will be part of my supper. I never kill anything just for the fun of it,"

Fotch said, carefully replacing his simple weapon in his back pocket.

We were a little ashamed that we had asked him to shoot anything alive. We

should have found an old can to place on the stump.

Cary did produce a can; and we encouraged Fotch to try to hit several times'

He never missed! It was truly anazing to watch!

Grandma called from the kitchen to invite us in for cookies and milk. They

were sugar cookies like she was teaching me how to bake'

140
￼CHAPTER TWELVE

Peach Pickin'Time

Right after breakfast, Austin stopped by to tell us it was time to harvest the ripe peaches.

"I'm going into Commerce to pick up as many of your cousins as I can round up. I'll be back here about 9:30 or l0 o'clock. I really need you two to help also. You did a fine job with the watermelons. Interested?"

"I am!" I said eagerly.

"Me, too!" Buck matched my enthusiasm.

We remembered how fair Austin had been paying us per melon. He couldn't

pay per peach, but maybe per basket.

"Great. Please be ready when I get back with the others and we'll start right

away!"

As Austin drove off in the large wagon, we looked to see if Mary and Cary

were hiding as before, but wagon was empty.

We turned to go tell Grandma of our chance to earn a little money today. She

was smiling as we entered the kitchen.

"l heard. Those peaches are just ripe for picking; and you should be able to

earn at least another trip to the movies." Grandma smiled at me, probably remembering the two spools of thread I had also bought for her.

"That's what we were hoping," Buck said.

"I can already taste that good popcorn," I added.

It was a quarter of ten before we saw Grandpa's wagon in the distance. As it came closer, we started counting and identi$ring the heads belonging to our cousins in the area.

"I see Steve and Willard Carl," I said quickly.

"There is Nolan and his brother, C.E.," Buck said.

"Camp is in there, too. He must have walked to Commerce early this

morning!"

"He must have," Buck said.

"What about Mary and Cary?"

"Yeah, it wouldn't be as much fun without them," Buck said, a little

disappointed.

A teasing voice from behind us said, "Not to worry! We are here."

"We couldn't miss that movie money. Besides picking peaches is fun!" Cary

added.
￼Kathryn Bush

It took us several hours of hard work and much cooperation among ourselves, but finally all the ripe peaches had been gathered safely and were in the baskets in the wagon.

"Where do you guys sit on the way home?" Buck wondered.

They laughed and Nolan said "It's only a three mile walk back. That's part of the fun to walk back together."

"Yeah," Said Steve. We skim a few stones, scare a few frogs, andjust enjoy talking as we take pour time getting home."

Willard Carl said, "We also plan what movie we'll see with the money we earned. After we've worked that hard" the movie had better be a good one!"

C.E. said, 'A new Western is coming to the Palace next week."

Nolan said, "Good idea, but we'll check them all out!"

Austin offered to us who were visiting or lived near Grandma's house, "I'll

take you into town for your movie when you decide. I'11 be taking a load of vegetables into market, and you can climb aboard."

To the boys who lived in and near Commerce, Austin said, "If all of you want to go to the movie together, we'll work it out. Now, here's your money. You all did a fine job."

142
￼CHAPTER THIRTEEN

Lunch - Kids' Swle

Thursday was always a slow day for chores and Grandma was always more willing to listen to our suggestions. Early on, she had agreed for us to have our cousins - Mary, Cary and Woody over for lunch. We insisted we make the lunch ourselves - Buck and I. At that point, egg salad sandwiches were not only our specialry but the only ones we knew how to make.

With a twinkle in her eye, Grandma produced still warm eggs - enough for our lunch. She had boiled a dozen earlier when the wood stove was hot. She also put some fruit on the table to go with our sandwiches.

"Grandma," I said excitedly, are the figs ripe already? I love those."

"Yes, just yesterday, I was able to pick a few," she said proudly. 'All of this fruit comes from our farm. You may remember my telling you that years ago when your Grandpa built this house for us, he planted many fruit and nut trees." Buck said" "I know they are not nut trees, but I really like the Scuppernongs and Muscadines."

"Me, too," I said. "the sweet Scuppernongs are my favorites."

"Everyone loves those, but, for some reason, Mary prefers the Muscadines. They do have a rather distinctive flavor."

"Grandma," I said, "I've made lemonade several times. Do you think that would be good with our lunch?"

Without hesitation, Grandma said, "That would be great. Since you kids have your plans so well in hand I believe I'll go upstairs and rest for a few minutes before we eat. What time did you ask your cousins to come?"

'At noon," we answered.

"Then you have plenty of time to prepare," Grandma said and disappeared toward the stairs.

The "fancy lunch" turned out pretty nice considering my young age ofeleven and Buck's even younger age ofnine. We stood back and enjoyed our handiwork, complete with napkins and probably unnecessary silverware. It made the table look festive though, particularly since Grandma had allowed us to use one of her tablecloths.

We still did not have any dessert, but I knew it was useless to ask Grandma to let me make some fudge. I had learned how this Spring at home. Her favorite granddaughter, Mickey, was the only one Grandma would trust with her hoard of sugar. She could not take the chance the rest ofus would waste any ofthe sugar she hoarded carefully. Oh well, the stove was not hot enough by now anlnvay.
￼Kathryn Bush

Buck said, "Why don't we look in the pantry for at least some Graham crackers?'

"Great!" I said, "l think she always keeps a supply of those."

Passing by Jello (which also requires a hot stove), we finally located an unopened package of Graham crackers.

We looked at each other questioningly. Would Grandma care if we opened a new package? Quickly, we decided she would not, especially since we were having company.

I went down to the cellar and cut offenough butter (carefully rewrapping the container) so that we could spread that on the crackers.

"Do you think some of the fig preserves with the butter on the crackers would make a good dessert?" I asked Buck.

"l do!" he loved the preserves as much as I, and we could not imagine why it would not please the others. It never occurred to us that this might be the last jar ofthat delicacy.

Woody came in first, followed by Cary and Mary. Was it my imagination, or did they dress up a little for this occasion?

Woody said, "The table looks great! Did you kids fix this all by yourselves?" "We certainly did. And it was fun!" we answered.

Mary said, "lt does look good. The only thing is how did you ever talk

Grandma into letting you use her last jar of fig preserves?"

Buck and I looked at each other in horror. "How could we possibly know that

was her lastjar?"

"If you had looked more carefully," Cary sai( "You would have noticed it

was your own mother's label on that jar."

I cringed as I looked. Mama alwaTs made sure she sent Grandpa enough of

her outstanding fig preserves to last until she canned them the following season. All of us loved her preserves made from the two huge fig trees at our home in Gainesville. Grandpa more than loved the delicacy, he seemed to require them! Without thinking, Buck and I had spread the preserves lavishly on the Graham crackers to create a special ending to our fine lunch.

How would Grandma react to what we had innocently done? We didn't have to wait long to find out as we suddenly heard Grandma coming down the stairs. Buck and I braced ourselves for whatever Grandma would say. Grandma

walked into the kitchen with a pleasant smile on her face.

"My, what a lovely table! You two have outdone yourselves' I can hardly wait until I taste what you have prepared."

As Grandma looked around the room, she observed our faces - one and all - and she added sweetly. "What a delicious looking dessert! You are so used to your mother's fine fig preserves, you must have known what a delicious touch they would make to your dessert. I'm proud of you both, Now - let's eat!"

The looks of relief flooded both mine and Buck's faces. What class Grandma could exhibit when she chose to!

t44
￼CHAPTER FOURTEEN

Top This One!

After lunch, we all cleaned up the kitchen in short order, but well enough to pass Grandma's inevitable inspection. We had told Grandma we would take care ofthe kitchen duty; and we all insisted she go back upstairs and finish her rest period.

Since Woody was here with the twins today, we decided to go in the parlor with our second glasses of lemonade. We had asked Grandma's permission before she went upstairs.

We decided it might be fun to see who could tell the most interesting story that any of us could remember.

Woody started off, since she was the one who suggested the stories. "Uncle Ed had to ride on the running board so that he could hold the bag in place on Grandpa's car.

"Uncle Ed yelled to Grandpa, "Slow down around that next curve, Papa, or you will throw me offwith this bag of seeds. We will land right in the ditch."

"Ofcourse, Grandpa did not slow down, and Uncle Ed and the bag ofseeds landed smack in the ditch, as Uncle Ed had feared. Fortunately, he landed on some soft red dirt, and the bag of seeds landed an bout twelve feet from him, spilling some of the seeds in the ditch.

"OK. That's my story - who's next?"

"I have a good one," Buck said.

"There is an old haunted house a few blocks from our home in Gainesville. A

lot ofour mothers had told us never to go there as the house was not safe. One day, wejust had to go in and see what was so bad. Everything looked dirty and spooky. One boy discovered a well on the inside back porch. Slowly, we all gathered around the dilapidated well which was partially open. All of us took one good look and we turned and ran as fast as we could toward the front door! It was awful! When we got outside, we realized could have fallen into that old well, as the boards around it were old and rotten. I've never been more scared and I'll never go in an old house that has been condemned again! !" Buck almost shivered with the memory.

"I was there. Too. And that story is hard to beat. I don't even like to think about it," I said.

"My story involves the time I disobeyed Grandma's orders not to go into the barn alone. This happened the third day of my visit alone, and I'm sure Grandma has not told you this story as it involves only me."
￼Kathryn Bush

"What is it?" Mary asked with real concern. They were not allowed in the barn without adult supervision either.

Well, Grandma had already gone upstairs to rest, and I was very restless, so I did go down to the barn. It is so big and scary when you are in there alone. Especially since Grandma had told me not to go. After I got inside, I saw Nellie Belle, but she gave me an irritated glance and went back to her oats. I went over to pet her, but changed my mind, as she did not appear too friendly. After I looked over at the cow and got the same unfriendly look, I decided to come back another time when Grandpa was with me. I turned toward the large barn door. I was almost to the door, when a dirty hand clamped over my mouth and a hissing voice warned me to be quiet. Another grimy hand clamped my ann until it hurt. I looked up and recognized the dreaded teenager from down near the covered bridge. He was not only dirty, but he had a snarl on his face.

"Don't cry out or you'll be sorry," he said in a mufiled voice.

"I don't see how I could cry out, as his hand was so tight over my mouth. I did squirm though, because his hand on my arrn really hurt."

'About this time, the huge barn door srffung open; and a fiery Grandma appeared!

"Get your filthy hands offmy granddaughter, Jeb! You have been told to stay off our property. Now get out of here! The next time I see you, I'll call the sherifï!"

"Jeb had a dark leer on his face, but he moved quickly as he knew Grandma would call the sheriff in a minute. He was in enough trouble with them already, so he broke into a slight run to reach the dirt road."

"Wow!" said the twins. "That beats an1'thing that happened to us," said Mary. "We were going to tell about the bull when we dammed up the creek, but what you went through was awesome!"

We decided on a game of Monopoly on the kitchen table. This was a better way of spending the two hours we had left. Any one of us could win as all of us loved this game.

t46
￼CHAPTER FIFTEEN

Not So Pale Anvmore

At the beginning of Buck's second week of visiting Grandma, she came out in the yard where Buck and I were playing marbles.

"Buck, you're pretty good at marbles! Katie is a whiz at horseshoes. What I think is great is that each of you is willing to play these games, anyway.

"I notice, Buck, that you are not as pale as when you arrived. It took Katie a week or so to overcome being pale and a little week. That Scarlet Fever and Whooping Cough that all of you kids suffered through in the Spring really took the starch out of you for some time.

"Ethel showed me the pictures ofeach ofyou on the horse. You both looked so peaked I wanted to cry. Now you look great. This country air is hard to beat!,, Grandma finished with pride.

"Now you go wash your hands after you finish that game. I want you to ride in the buggy to Maysville with me." Grandma gave me an elaborate knowing wink.

"We're just finished"' I cried" jumping up to get ready.

"What's the rush?" Buck said grumpily as he wanted to beat me another game.

"You can play again after we return," said Grandma.

Austin had stopped by a few minutes before to water his horse. He had Nellie

Belle hitched up to the shiny buggy. If he was nearby, he usually did this for Grandma.

"That's a fine looking pair of grandchildren you have there, Grandma!" Austin had said when he saw us playing marbles a few minutes ago. ,.1'll stop by later in the week to talk with Buck. He certainly has grown since last year. He still is not old enough to water my horse, but I'll bet he'll try. Katie really enjoyed giving Perkins a bucket or two."

"Noq Grandma, be careful when you unhitch Nellie Belle. you know how frisky she can be," Austin added.

"Get off with you, Austin! I was hitching and unhitching my horses when you were not much older than Buck," Grandma said affectionately.

Buck and I came out of the house at the same time, both eager for a ride in the buggy.

True to form, about half a mile from Grandma's house, she laid a soft whip to Nellie Belle's back as a signal for her to start the Pony Express run to Maysville. I anxiously watched Buck's face and found to my astonishment his expression was very similar to Grandma's - - and Nellie Belle's! Had my favorite brother inherited Grandma's and Grandpa's - - and Nellie Belle's - - love of speed?
￼Kathryn Bush

We quickly reached Maysville (it was not more than three miles') Grandma took us in the general store where she selected several spools ofthread ofvarious colors. She picked up a couple of cards of buttons that matched the pink thread' but set them aside mumbling something about buying them later. It was very obvious to me that this trip to Maysville was purely for Buck's benefit so that he could see Nellie Belle run. She could really fly!

On the trip home, I expected a leisurely pace from Nellie Belle so that we could enjoy talking to each other. Instea{ the horse, with a mind of her own, took off like a rocket. Even Grandma had trouble keeping her under control. Once, Nellie Belle looked back in Buck's direction and seemed to say, "Watch me. I'll show you just how fast this horse can move!"

Buck's face mirrored his delight with the speed exhibited by this usually docile horse.

After quite a galloping run, I breathlessly said to Grandma, "Aren't we near the blackberry bushes?"

Grandma forced herself to pay attention to the whizzing landscape' "Why yes. They are coming up on the right. Whoa, Nellie Belle! I mean NOW!" To me, she said, "I brought a couple ofbuckets along in case any blackberries were 1eft."

I said to Grandma, "lf there are enough blackberries, could we please make some jam to take back to Mama and Daddy? Daddy really loves that stuff."

"You bet we can. In fact, I'd already thought of that. Buck, have you ever picked blackberries from the bushes before?"

"No, Ma'am, but I do love the jam, too. Can I pick some of the berries?"

"Indeed you may. In fact Katie will show you how. As for me, after such a naughty run Nellie Belle took upon herself to do, I'd better rest up, as it is almost time to start supper."

Grandma visibly relaxed while we contentedly worked at filling our buckets. Ever so often, we had to taste the quality of the berries, but we still managed to fill our buckets pretty quickly, as the blackberry crop was very generous this year.

As we neared Grandma's house, I looked warily at the large barn. I couldn't help remembering my dreadful experience with Jeb; and I also remembered my Grandma appearing at just the right moment to save me from his clutches' Later, I figured she must have seen Jeb enter the bam from her window upstairs. I did not believe she could move so fast, but I'll always be grateful she did!

Buck's question broke into my thoughts. "Grandma, do the hens ever lay their eggs in the barn?"

"Never!" Grandma almost snapped. She also remembered acutely my recent scary experience, and did not want us anywhere near the barn. She added more gently, "The hens always lay their eggs in the henhouse. There are roosts for their sleeping and rows of nests for their laying eggs."

"Would you like to help Katie gather the eggs tomorrow morning?"

"Oh yes, Ma'am," Buck said excitedly, "I've always wanted to do that."

"Just watch out for that red hen. She actually wants to keep all of her eggs." I told Buck good naturedly.

"You wrote me about her. I'11 be extra careful." He wondered to himself why the old red hen would want to keep her eggs.

148
￼FORTY GRAND

Grandma explained to Buck that the red hen always preferred to hatch her eggs into baby chickens whenever she could hide them well enough to get by with it.

"You kids have had enough excitement for one afternoon. I'll fix you some iced tea and you can go into the parlor and rest up while I fix supper. There are some books in there that should interest you. I shivered involuntarily, remembering the ancient Bible with the scary piôtures in the book of Revelation.

No sooner than we set our iced tea glasses down on the table, but Buck (as if the idea was exciting) said to me, "Ion a minute, I really do want to see those pictures in Revelation, but first, I want to ask you something.

"Is Nellie Belle always like that? Boy! She can really fly!" Buck was obviously hopeful.

"No, I don't think so. On the way to Maysville last time, she flew all the way there, but on the way home, she set a nice leisurely pace, and we were able to talk. I'm sure the run from Maysville was entirely for your benefit. Did you see her actually look back at you as ifto say, "Watch and see how fast I can really flv!"

"I sure did. I couldn't believe she could move that fast. It was the most exciting part of my visit!" Buck's eyes were shining.

Buck continued "Since we are in this room, and the old Bible is right there on the table, I really would like to see those pictures that frightened you so much in the book of Revelation." He picked up the Bible and handed it to me. ..you can find things in the Bible faster than I can - with all those Bible drills you have won."

I almost smiled at his words as I was pretty good at the Bible drills, but I was also aware he really wanted to see how bad those pictures would scare him.

"Oh all right," I said grudgingly, and turned quickly to the first picture.

After we had looked warily at each one, Buck said, "I cannot understand why these scared you so. They are ugly, but they don't scare me."

"I guess I was just tired when I looked at them and alone. They don't look so bad now"

149
￼
￼CHAPTER SIXTEEN

Scary Bridge Tales

Fletcher and Ross walked in Grandma's parlor one evening when Buck and I were telling some mild ghost stories. Buck was aware that I was not crazy about such a pasttime because the stories usually made me uneasy to say the least.

The two older cousins heard just enough to make them quickly rack their brains for stories that would indeed make their younger cousins'hair stand on end!

Fletcher entered the room first and asked how we were enjoying our visit. I said" "We are having a great time. Not homesick even once."

Buck nodded his head in agreement.

They sat down in a couple of nearby chairs. After a few moments, Fletcher

said, "Did you ever hear the story ofthe ghost who got trapped in the roofofthe covered bridge?"

Buck said, "ln the inside or the outside ofthe roof?"

Ross said mildly, "Does it really make a lot of difference?'

Buck said, "Not really, I guess, but the inside would be more scary."

"You are certainly right about that! About dusk on many Fall day, when one

is walking toward the Shoals, sometimes one can see a definite shadow seeming to enter the bridge," Fletcher whispered.

"Noq hold on!" I said (remembering how they could sometimes really frighten me with their tall tales.) "Who in their right mind would walk toward the Shoals that close to nightime?"

'That's beside the point! Once Ralph and I dared to take such a walk - since there were two of us. It was almost totally dark when we started back through the old covered bridge."

"Ralph whispered to me and pointed a trembling finger, Did you see that?"

Fletcher continued now that he had our fulI attention. "Where? He asked- interested, but beginning to be a little queasy to be there so late in the evening. We had both heard rumors of the mysterious filmy apparition that several claim to have seen."

'Almost shivering with unaccustomed fear, we gingerly walked slowly into the bridge. Carefully examining the interior, we were almost afraid of what we might find. In one corner, near the top of the 'ceiling,' we discovered an old" worn out rag that was really tattered. It was then that we realized we had been had!"

"Do you expect us to believe such a tale?" I laughed nervously.
￼Kathryn Bush

Fletcher said, "No, but you should have seen your faces for a while there!" He laughed heartily.

"We really shouldn't try so hard to scare them They are good kids, "Ross said kindly.

152
￼CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

Reverse Retribution!

Buck looked me straight in the eyes and said" "you've been talkine about how Mary likes to win every game she plays! Have you stopped to realïze just how much you like to win - especially at horseshoes? of course, you are almost unbeatable, but that doesn't keep the rest of us from trying to beai you!"

. "Yqy is very good at hopscotch, yet you always try io beat hèr. What,s the point? I'm very good at marbles, but so is Cary. t'm getting tired of everyone trying so hard to win. Why can't we just enjoy playing-all of our games together?"

I looked at Buck, marveling at his young wisdom! I considered carefully all he had said" then I replied, "I truly did not realize I was criticizing Mary foi the very_faults I am guilty of. Thank you for calling this to my atteition. iMaybe I should apologize to Mary. ,l really do enjoy having her around," I said sincérely.

Buck grinned and felt he had won a minor battle. "I don't think that will be necessary. Just don't try so hard all the time to win. All of us would have more fun if you and Mary would just relax and enjoy the games."

"Mary would probably be able to relax if I did"'I said with some wisdom of my own.

The next day when the twins came over after their chores, I was anxious to put Buck's new plan into action.

-^ It wasn't long before Mary noticed that I was not putting forth the usual effort to beat her. she also was aware that I seemed much rn-ore relaxed. My games seemed to get sharper. That really bothered her so she made a rup..-. effort to relax to see if her game would improve also.

Buck and Cary observing us, laughed until their stomachs hurt.

M_u.V and I had competed with a vengeance - now, relaxing had proved to .have the same result. we were still in a tie ôn almost everything -we playedl

Being the fun-loving kids we really were, Mary and I started-laughing at ourselves as hard as the boys. After all, suddenly the four ofus realizedThatjust playing our favorite games together was the real fun. Long after Buck and I went home, we would all remember these carefree days of this-special summer!
￼
￼CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

Mail Call

One morning after Buck and I had finished our chores we decided to go out in the back yard and compete at horseshoes. Buck had also become very interested in this game, and he was becoming increasingly skillful at ringers. The game is one of pure skill, and both of us enjoy trying to excel. I guess that is one of the main reasons the game appealed to us - me in particular.

"Do you think Daddy will make a place in our yard to play horseshoes? Buck asked.

"I'm sure he will. He had mentioned that several times this year. It doesn't cost much, and he will understand how much we enjoy playing. By the way, when Grandpa was teaching you how to play horseshoes, did he mention that Daddy flips his horseshoes over and over instead ofthe way Grandpa taught us how to furn the shoes round and round when we throw them?" I asked.

"He did mention that but I couldn't picture how a shoe could go over and over. I guess I'll just have to watch Daddy when he plays sometime," Buck added thoughttully.

Grandma came around the corner ofthe house holding an envelope in her hand. She had a big smile on her face.

"It seems your mother has written a letter addressed to both of you," she said.

Eagerly, we tore open the envelope and inside we read a nice note from Mama. Also enclosed, to our surprise. was an unexpected treat - our big brother and two sisters had written us a note - each one folded with our names written on the outside. We were so excited that we were chattering away. Then we noticed in the back ofthe envelope was a note from Daddy. It said, "you kids have become so interested in horseshoes that yesterday I installed two poles at the proper distance and bought four horseshoes just like Grandpa's. Now, when you get home, we'll see if I can beat one or both of you!! See you soon, Love, Daddy.',

Buck and I just stared at each other in disbelief for a moment. Our wishes had already been answered!

With another big grin on her face, Grandma pointed to a small cloud of trailing dust a little distance away. The three of us knew instinctively that it was Grandpal But - what was he doing home at this time of day?

Grandpa turned into the yard with his usual speed and quickly hopped out of his car, holding a big bag in one hand.

"Your Daddy called me at my office in Commerce and told me he is coming to pick you up on Sunday after church." Our mother never ventured (or allowed any of our family to) anyvhere until after church!
￼Kathryn Bush

Grandma announced, "I have decided that we need a picnic to celebrate the fine time we have had on your visit with us this summer! Katie, you and Buck run over and fetch Mary Cary and Woody so that they can join us. Oh, yes, and ask Marie to come. too. We will eat about three o'clock It will take me that long to make the homemade ice cream."

"Mattie, do you think you could whip up one of your famous chocolate cakes for the occasion?" Grandpa asked ever so sweetly.

"I'll do my best, but we had better make it four o'clock so that I will have plenty of time. Buck was able to gather thirteen eggs this morning; and this was churning day, so Katie made fresh butter," Grandma assured him.

"I bought hot dogs and plenty ofpotato chips," Grandpa added.

Buck and I were so surprised and pleased over the prospect of a party in our honor that we took off for the twins' home with no thought of the danger of a snake that could be coiled lying in wait for us. I rather doubt if a snake could have caught up with us anyway, as we moved so fast!

About half-way to Aunt Marie's house, we slowed to a walk for a couple of minutes to catch our breath. At the same moment, we looked to our right toward the little creek that we had helped dam up. There on a little hill, just short ofthe cliff stood that great bull, majestically yet peacefully grazing on the sweet summer grass. Both of us laughed a little to see him looking so tame' However, below the bull was the dammed-up creek he considered his private large watering hole.

With our second wind, we approached Mary and Cary who had noticed our arrival with a pleased but puzzled expression on their faces.

Buck and I wasted no time telling our cousins of Grandpa's party plans. Aunt Marie and Woody had overheard. The three kids of Aunt Marie were shuffled off to clean up and change clothes. Her parting remark to them was, "Be sure to brush your hair neatly. This is a party, remember?"

Pretty soon, the five of us kids were merrily skipping along, with Aunt Marie walking rather briskly trying to keep up.

Austin would probably drop by later to water his horse, Perkins, and join in our pa{w.

156
￼CHAPTER NINETEEN

Home At Last

On Sunday, Daddy drove into our grandparents'yard. When Daddy got out ofthe car, he didn't even wait to close the door; but he scooped us up - one on each arm. We talked rapidly like magpies, trying to catch up on the rest of the family.

"Now wait just a minute," Daddy laughed. "Don't talk so fast; and I'll tell you all about what has been going on at home!"

"To begin with, Mickey has moped around the entire time you've been gone. She really wanted to stay too. Irene kept her pretty busy, making her join in many ofher various activities but she never lost sight ofthe fact she felt cheated out of a two-week visit with her favorite Grandma."

"I'm so sorry she felt that way, She could have stayed" Buck said generously.

"That is good of you to feel that way, Buck," said Daddy. "However, all of us felt that it would be a fine vacation for the two of you to be with your grandparents alone."

Buck and I brightened, then asked Daddy a million questions about our family. It would be good to see all of them and to get back home. Then another feeling reared its head. We had been having such an exciting, wonderful time, it would be knda sad to have our vacation end.

I said, "Daddy, when we can tell everyone at home at once, we want to tell about our experience with the watermelons."

"You couldn't just give me a little hint now, huh?"

"guess we'd better," Buck said. Then we proceeded to tell Daddy all about our story.

Daddy beamed with pride at our working so hard to earn our entertainment money.

"By the way, I stopped at that little store on the way and bought us each a Baby Ruth candy bar. You can eat them on the way home."

Buck and I eagerly savored our favorite candy. Daddy always stopped at that same little store. It was sort of a tradition.

Two weeks was the extent ofBuck's very pleasurable visit, but I had been here practically all summerl How could I say goodbye to Grandma and not see her until vacation time next year? And Grandpa - I adore him so; and how I will miss our nightly checker games. And the horseshoes. He had taught Buck to play well, but I still enjoyed being able to beat Grandpa now and then. I always loved being around Grandpa and having him call me "Sugar Babe," even though I was
￼Kathryn Bush

well aware he called all of his forty grandchildren by that endearing name. Somehow, he had a way of calling each one and making him or her feel special! After rather sadly saying goodbye to both our grandparents, wejumped into

the back seat of Daddy's caq and suddenly felt a pang of homesickness and a longing to see our family.

Daddy started the car, and we waved to our grandparents as long as we could see them. To try to cheer us up, Daddy started singing his and Mama's favorite car song.

"Little Mary Fagan

Went to town one day

She went to the pencil factory To get her weekly pay."

Daddy started singing the second verse and asked us to join in. Half- heartedly, we helped Daddy sing the song we had heard our parents sing what seemed a million times, but it just was not the same without Mama.

Finally, Buck interrupted by saying, "How is old Spot?'He is the family dog, but the dog always thought he belonged to Buck alone.

"He hasn't eaten too well since you've been away, Buck. I think he missed all that extra attention you give him."

Daddy had said just the right thing to bring a big smile to Buck's face. "how is the 'ole cow?" I said - not to be outdone.

"She's giving as much milk as ever! Your mother has had to invent more ways to use milk with you two away. She even made arrangements to deliver a gallon or two to the Orphan's Home!"

'Are you kidding us, Daddy?" I asked.

"Yes. I am. but the rest of us have never consumed so much milk in our lives! We'1l be glad to have you both back home so that you can drink your share."

"That won't be hard for me - I love milk," I said.

"We all know that," Buck teased.

Daddy said "I'll be glad to drink a couple of cups of coffee in the mornings

instead of milkl"

"Now, Daddy, I'm sure you are stretching that story a little."

"Maybe just a little," Daddy grinned.

When Daddy pulled into our driveway at home, all the rest of the family was

waiting on the porch to greet us. Irene had seen our car a block away.

Hugs were rampant and even Curtis joined in. This kind of homecoming was

new to Buck and me because we had never been to our grandparents'house without Mickey before.

Mickey was so glad to see both of us that she forgot her disappointment and hugged us both for a long moment.

Mama looked us over carefully and her hug showed her delight in having us home. It was still just a short time since all five of us kids had suffered with Scarlet Fever and Whooping Cough at the same time. It had taken time for us all to get our strength back. Satisfied that we looked extremely healthy and nicely tanned, Mama was so happy to see us.

"Milk and cookies are in the kitchen," Irene impishly announced. It was true, but it was yet another way to use the extra milk from our heavily producing cow.

158
￼FORTY GRAND

"Be sure and put your dirt clothes in the laundry. I'll wash them in the morning," Mama said.

"That won't be necessary," I said proudly. "We washed them all yesterday!,'

Mama threw her head back and laughed heartily. ,.you used Mama's 'Automatic Washing Machine'. Huh?"

"You better believe it. The first time she washed after I arrived there, I was horrified that she didn't have a washing machinel" I said.

Buck said, "Grandma let me beat the stains out on that big rock. I really got a kick out ofthat!"

"Someday, they will have electricity in that rural section, and then all ofus children can chip in and buy Grandma a real fancy washing machine,,' Daddy said.

Mama looked at me and said softly, "Katie, Mama said that during the past corrple ofthunderstorms, you awakened but turned over and went back to slèep. I find that rather wonderful!"

"Yes Ma'am. I finally figured that the storms came so often at night, it was ridiculous to lose sleep over them. Or - - maybe Grandpa convincèd me the lightning rods he put on their house really did work!"

Buck and I looked into the faces ofeach ofour family and realized that even though we d had a wonderful time in the country we were grateful to be home.

r59
￼
￼EPILOGUE

We Survived An Era

The Great Depression of the 'Thirties'was too tremendous a part of our lives to just mention a few lines and dismiss the thought lightiy. During the Depression, and for a few years afterward, American fàmiliei wârked traia ror very little available money. The big item in any family budget was FooD. There yus.n:yel quite enough. Children were not finicky eaters _ they were just thankful their table had food and they shared it equally but hungrily.

During those years of wanting toys for christmas and finding only the few our parents could manage for us - usually at a sacrifice to themielvel - it was rude awakening to us who could remember far more toys under the tree! But - - w-g_Tlust also always remember that there were always a few things for us five children, even some were made painstakingly and lovingly by our farents.

The hard times of sacrifice and doing without muoy thingr we ihought at the time were important to us and did us no harm. In fact, we beèame a veù closelv knit.family really caring for one another. That closeness has lasted tt.ougnoi our lives.

One thing all of us remember is that we went to church every Sunday, sometimes twice. That was our most important spiritual contact una lt urro served as an important social contact for each ofus. Since no one had any money during those years, we could console ourselves and each other that so-eouy things would be much better.

My youngest brother, Ronald s. Nunn, the last child born to our parents, Ethel and charlie Nunn, was born in 1943 during world war II, and considerably after the setting of my novel, "Forty Grand." which was during the Great Depression in 1936.

I was eighteen when Ronnie was born. we enjoyed telling him many times the hard times we endured during the 'Thirties'. Hê èven believed most of them. He is a great brother and we are somehow glad he was raised in more prosperous times.

The year 1995 was celebrated by the media as the fiftieth anniversary ofthe death of Franklin Delano Roosevelt in warm springs, Georgia. I remember how devastated our whole country was at that news. I always felt, and still do. that he was our country's greatest President. He led us out oithat'horrible o.i."rsion with his New Deal, etc. Also, I could personally relate to his greatnesrï..uur. he had battled with a life of polio as I have. His was much wor-se than mine, as I had a mild case, but it has always affected the way I walk. He rose aboé his
￼Kathryn Bush

Polio affliction, wen though he oould not use his legs and I wæ always in are of his ability to inspire our nation to real greatness because oh his leadership.

I will never forget the day Roosevelt was to speak in Gainesville (where I lived) from the back of the train platform' Our schools practiced songs for weeks to sing for him in those fleeting moments before his speech was to begin. The words to those songs are still in my head. It was the most important moment in ouryoung Iives up to that time!

I

I t

I

r62
￼
￼K"th"yr N. Bush GoldenWriter

This author wrote this novel through the eyes of an eleven year old girl. She was the child. She was stricken with Polio at eighteen months and was paralyzed from the waist down for six months. Her parena did pot tell her she had Polio but rather always told her she had a fall.

Katle lived then and still lives a normal life - determined to walk well in spite of a weak left ankle.

Post Polio Syndrome raised its ugly head seven years ago, but the pain and related discom- forts do not stop this 76 year old very active Mother and Grandmother.

Katie lives life with a passion and devotes her time to writing, being a Tâxi for her Grand- children and any other interests she is devoted to. By resting when necessary, 3he acômplishes near miracles!

'l $19.50 US



